From chris@tncnet.comSat Oct 14 15:46:36 1995
Date: Fri, 13 Oct 1995 02:18:28 -0700
From: Chris Clements <chris@tncnet.com>
Reply to: The wfrp mailing list <wfrp@gojira.monsta.com>
To: wfrp@gojira.monsta.com
Subject: WFRP: Da' Boyz

All right, I'm going to be brave and send something.  I know
it might not fit the 'tone' of anyones campaign, and frankly, it
never fitted into mine either.  However, if anyone is looking for
great laughable opponents (tough, too!) - here you go.

If you don't like it then I didn't write it.  Hell, I didn't
even post it then!  Someone is trying to frame me... :o

-Da Re'veng of Da Boyz-

The group of dwarves looked out on the mass of green goblinhood
strewn out before them.  An orc head there, a goblin's detatched
arm over there.  The battle had been quick and the stout warriors
craved more melee.  A sigh of disappointment could be heard from
the Troll Slayer Grex as he discovered none of the goblinoids
lived.

"Cheer up Grex, there's sure to be more greenskins around.  Will
find'em all and kill'em good!", Margor said smiling as he wiped
the blade of his axe with his dark blue cloak.

The sentiment appeared to cheer Grex up.  He gave a big smile.
The smile changed into a look of disbelief as he looked what
was emerging in the cavern ahead.

"What in the name of Grun...", was all Berundrigar could say before
a spear buried itself into his chest, sending the tall dwarf to the
ground like a sack of rotten potatoes.

Grex couldn't believe what he saw.  Before him stood a mixed group of
assorted goblinoids with what looked like spikey off-colored wigs
nailed into their skulls.  There were two goblins, an orc, a black
orc, a hobgoblin, and a little snotling (which had a wig burying its
head).  All were armed to the teeth, and were grinning madly at the
dwarves that gaped back at them.

The black orc stepped forward and gave a meaty, drooling laugh.
"Wuhauhuaha.... Wha's a matt'r, ain' youse evr' seeen no stuntie
slayurs befur?  Der be da dwurfin slayurs... wize kan't we getz sum
slayur fellers to?  Youse slayin' da giantses and trollies, sose
wez gotta hav de Dwurf an Humie slayurs..ryt'? Ryt'...", the 
creature spat as he (it?) finished the speech.  The black orc
then raised a wicked two-handed flail and began to spin it in
wide arcs.  The other goblinoids began brandishing their weapons
and started advancing on the group of dwarves.

Grex had just enough time to get off one final statement.
"Something tells me were not in Karak-Ungor anymore..."

+Role-Playing+

Goblinoids are generally thought of as lesser, unworthy opponents
for most advanced tough characters.  However, doesn't it follow
suit that if the pcs are superior members of their race, that the
goblins would be able to have a few unique individuals also?

Following this logic, and tired of the party trashing these poor
innocent greenies, I came up with a novel idea.  Stuntie Slayers.
Yep, that's right.  The gobbos, seeing the extreme effectiveness
of the Dwarven Slayer Cult have implemented their own 'sekrut
planz', which involves those gobbos that have nothing left to lose.
Enter the Stuntie Slayers.

What is a stuntie slayer?  Any goblinoid willing to devote himself
to mindless mayhem directed (mostly) against other humanoid races
in the Old World;  Their favorite combatant is a dwarf, but
anyone that gets in the way is fair game.  Copying the other
slayers of dwarven race, the stuntie slayers tattoo themselves and
dye their hair (which they don't have a lot of - at least on top
of their head) different colors.  Most wear bright colored wigs 
which they tack onto their heads.

Why does a goblinoid become a stuntie slayer?  Perhaps a stuntie
wronged him long ago.  Maybe a stuntie killed his favorite pet
squig.  Or maybe the green fellow decided he just wanted to kill
a lot of things.  Why is never important, for no one asks a stuntie
slayer why he (or she - eww!) had become a stuntie slayer.  This is 
not due to any fear (well, maybe a little), but generally because
they themselves have forgotten the original reason.

Now, I know what a lot of you out there are thinking while reading
this - "There is no way in hell I'd ever introduce something so
silly into my game; it doesn't keep up with the Warhammer tone of
a dark grim world".  Well, all I can say to that is - while funny,
what could be more sinister than a hobgoblin about to rip your
head off with his bare greasy stuntie slaying hands?  Give it a 
try... c'mon, you know you want to.  Okay, okay... don't make the
gobbos as hilarious, make them more grim, brooding, dark, sinister,
and whatever other evil emotion you care to invest within them; but
give the stuntie slayers a fair break!  Wouldn't it be great to
take the pcs down a few pegs?  All I ask is that you consider the
possibilities....

Stuntie Slayers do not concern themselves with caution - they throw
themselves into combat with a wild abandon: they want to kill, and
if it means getting killed in the process then it's a price they
are more than willing to pay.  It must be noted that the slayers
are quite often unhinged (completely mad).  Most are likely to
have eccentric behavior well beyond the norms of 'normal'
goblinoids (which is saying a lot as the norm amongst goblinoids 
can get pretty bizzare!).

On a last note, these gobbos seem to respect other slayers and
'wurdensers' (wardancers).  What this leads to is the chance
for conversation before the combat (which will happen) begins.
("Uggh...got gud lookin' 'air, youse dose!  Howse du yer gitz itz
allz spikey lik' dat?")

-Stuntie Slayers-

+Humie Slayur+

M   WS   BS   S   T   W   I   A   Dex   Ld   Int   Cl   Wp   Fel
   +20  +10  +1	 +1  +6  +20 +1        +20        +20  +10

Skills: Concealment Urban, Concealment Rural, Disarm, Dodge Blow,
Specialist Weapon - Two Handed and another of your choice, Street
Fighter, Strike Mighty Blow, and 25% of Very Resilient and Very
Strong.

Trappings:  d4+4 weapons, 25% of some type of armor, d4 bitz an
things.

Career Exits: Dwurfie Slayur

+Dwurfie Slayur+

M   WS   BS   S   T   W   I   A   Dex   Ld   Int   Cl   Wp   Fel
   +40  +20  +2  +2  +8  +30 +2        +30   +10  +40  +20  +/-10

Skills: Three more specialist weapon proficiencies, Frenzied Attack,
Torture, and Wrestling.

Trappings: (Same as Humie Slayur).

Okay - that's it.  I am sorry about the 'silly' content and the length.
Just try not to trash me to badly about it; I'll ask your forgiveness in
advance.

 
Chris Clements
chris@tncnet.com

