(Obligatory copyright statement)
   I am releasing the following material I have written which may be used
only in a GM's home campaign.  I reserve all rights to the descriptive
material (except the Ulrican descriptions as those rights belong to myself
and Anthony Ragan) while system-specific material is copyright by GW.


Alfred Nunez
MadAlfred@AOL.com
Hauptdirektor-Schwarzmantel

Templar Orders:   <Advanced>

Knights of the Cleansing Flame (Solkan)
   Founded in the latter stages of the Remean Empire and gaining notoriety
during the Crusading Wars against Araby, the Knights of the Cleansing Flame
are dedicated to confronting and destroying Chaos in whatever form it can be
found.  Their primary enemies (if any) are the Khornate Disciples of the Red
Redemption for the slaughters and other atrocities they committed against
both sides during the Arabian wars.  Other enemies of choice include
followers of Tzeentch and the Horned Rat for their patron's part in the
kidnapping of the Law Goddess Arianka.
   For career advance scheme, career exits, and trappings see the Templar
advance career, WFRP, page 106.


Order of the Blazing Sun (Myrmidia)
   Founded during the Battle of Magritta, the Templars of the Order of the
Blazing Sun embody the virtues of military planning, preparedness, and
execution of orders.  The image of a knight fighting alongside his fellow
knights and crushing their opponents under the hooves of their steeds is seen
as a model of military ideal and professional.
   For career advance scheme, career exits, and trappings see the Templar
advance career, WFRP, page 106.


Order of the Flaming Scimitar (Ormazd)
   Founded during the wars against the declining Constantian Empire  (1060
I.C.), the Templars of the Order of the Flaming Scimitar have been in the
forefront of every war against the enemies of the cult.  The Flaming
Scimitars embody the virtues of bravery, vigor, and strength of faith that is
held in esteem by the Arabian people.
   For career advance scheme, career exits, and trappings see the Templar
advance career, WFRP, page 106.  In place of the Specialist Weapon-Lance
skill and Breast Plate trappings, the Order of the Flaming Scimitar
substitute the Marksmanship skill and the Short Bow with Ammunition
trappings.


Order of the Stone Wall (Grungni)
   Founded during the first coming of Chaos (-4500 I.C.), the Templars of the
Order of the Stone Wall embody the virtues of precise execution of orders,
standing fast in the face of onslaught, and never faltering in battle.  The
image of a solid wall of warriors breaking a charging enemy is seen as a
model of Dwarven determination in battle.
   For career advance scheme, career exits, and trappings see the Templar
advance career, WFRP, page 106.  In place of the Ride-Horse skill, Templars
of the Order of the Stone Wall substitute Specialist Weapon-Flail and
Specialist Weapon-Two-Handed Weapon.


Templars of the White Wolf (Ulric)
   Templars of the White Wolf embody the virtues of personal combat, but one
still locked in the past.  The image of a bare-backed berserker barbarian
defying the forces of Chaos and Evil is seen through nostalgic eyes as a
model of heroic martial prowess.
   For career advance scheme, career exits, and trappings see the Templar
Advance Career, WFRP, page 106.

