From: "Mr. Whippy" <SC3NG@app_science.rgu.ac.uk>
To: wfrp@gojira.monsta.com
Subject: WFRP: Rant:Jesters, Dart Guns, Verenan Templars


VERENAN TEMPLARS
----------------

Verena is the Goddess of learning and Justice.  Her templars reflect 
both of these attributes in their skills and profiles.  As violence 
is the last resort when reason has failed - templars of Verena have
reduced combat profiles but this is balanced with by their increased
skills and mental statistics.  However some templars of Verena have 
been employed as Inquisitors - it is their duty to 'police' the 
cult and weed out anyone who is less than honest.


M   Ws   Bs   S  T  W  I   A  Dex  Ld  Int   Cl   Wp  Fel
-  +20  +20  +1 +2 +6 +30 +2 +20  +20  +30  +20  +30  +20
    --   --         --                  ++        ++
 
Skills: Disarm, Dodge, Intimidate(cf. apocrypha now p. 18), 
Read/Write,
Ride-Horse, SS-Templar, StrikeTS, Sense Deception(new skill!).

Trappings: armour as listed, no lance, sword (for justice), writing 
kit, large tome filled with strictures and laws, horse & tack & 
harness, small scales (to indicate guilt in a visible manner - as 
each piece of evidence is given a small bead is added to one pan or 
the other), darker coloured robes, skull cap.

SENSE DECEPTION

Because of the auditor / inquisitor side of the duties of a verenan 
templar, this often involves dealing with would-be embezzlers or 
similar people who have achieved a position of trust in the cult's
heirarchy (or for that matter in a guild or wherever the templar is 
requested to be).  The ability to detectlies by inflection of the 
voice 
and other physical signs is highly  valued.

The templar confronts the subject and asks them numerous 'test' 
questions.
This is to gauge the normal reaction of the 'liar'.  The templar then 
proceeds to discuss the matter being investigated.

Falsehoods can be detected as the templar enters an almost 
trance-like 
state and analyses the words of the test subject.  Tests are done 
against 
the characters force of will, thus Wp is used.  The whole 'trance 
process'
can take up to an hour.


Regrettably this is not entirely accurate as often a templar is 
prejudiced 
against the subject, as simply  being called to this duty indicates that 
something is 
amiss, and the templar is there - in part - to extract the 'truth' as
indicated by the (often 'amended' evidence given to him).

Tests are as follows:
+10 if the subject is afraid of the inquisitor (ie where intimidate 
comes  in).
+10 if subject is known to have completed ANY rogue career.
+10 for any evidence that indicated guilt on the subjects' part.
-5  if subject is an initiate of Verena
-10/level if subject is a Cleric of Verena
-5 (cumulative) if subject posesses any of the following: acting, 
blather,
      charm, seduction, wit (as the inquisitor is mislead)

NB:  Templars are the martial arm of the church - so combat skill are 
still used to some extent, note the verenan templar ISN'T supposed to 
be a Torquemada-clone, BUT - some of them will be embittered to their 
lifestyle an d perhaps will be over-zealous in a manner similar to 
witch hunters...


