To: WFRP@cool.khis.com
From: alien@sage.cc.purdue.edu (Martin Hillgrove)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Wardancer
 
  Among the Wood Elves of the Old World, the most feared and respected 
warriors are the Wardancers.  They live for the glory of battle, and 
dedicate themselves to reaching the peak of fighting prowess.  They are 
also masters of courtesy and dance, performing their intricate maneuvers 
with consummate ease and grace.
  Wardancers are to be found in many of the larger Elven settlements in 
the forests of the Old World.  They prefer the company of their own 
kind, but often live a little way apart from the main settlement, 
practicing their warchants and feats of arms while waiting for action.
Wardancers may become adventurers for a number of reasons.  An 
adventurer's life offers plenty of action, and almost unlimited 
opportunities to hone their skills against a variety of opponents.  They 
are wilder than the majority of Elves, and some find life in the forests 
tame and dull.  Wardancers may even take to adventuring among other 
races as a result of an unspoken disgrace or indiscretion, much (though 
it's unwise to make the comparison) as a Dwarf may become a Troll 
Slayer.
  Wardancers are distinguished by their graceful pride, their love of 
fighting and their fondness for spectacularly-dyed hair, often stiffened 
with tree resin.
 
Advance Scheme
 M    WS   BS   S  T  W   I  A  Dex  Ld  Int  Cl  WP  Fel
+1   +40  +20  +3 +3 +8 +20 +2  +10          +20      +10
 
Skills
Acrobatics, Ambidextrous, Dance, Distract*, Dodge Blow, Marksmanship- 
Thrown Wpns only, Spec Weapon- 2-handed Wpns, Strike Mighty Blow, Strike 
to Injure, Transfix*, Warchant*, Whirling Death*
	*=new skill described below
 
Trappings
Hand Wpn, Shield, Spear or 2-hand Wpn or 2-hand Axe
 
Entered From (Only Elves are eligible)
Bounty Hunter, Mercenary Captain, Judicial Champion, Pit Fighter, 
Outlaw, Scout
 
Career Exits
Mercenary Captain, Outlaw Chief, Judicial Champions
 
 
Special Skills
  Transfix:  Confusing an opponent with feints and flurries.  Wardancer 
must make a successful 'I' test to use the skill.  If opponent fails a 
'WP' test, then the Wardancer gets +10 to hit and the enemy gets -10 to 
hit the Wardancer.  If the Wardancer is fighting several opponents, then 
he only needs to make one 'I' test, while all opponents make their own 
'WP' tests, effects as normal.  The modifiers continue until the 
transfixed opponent hits the Wardancer (not necessarily wound).  
Wardancers cannot transfix opponents with 'Int' less than 6, or who are 
immune to psychology.
  Warchant:  Wardancer may only sing a Warchant while charging an 
opponent.  If he passes an 'Int' test:
    1) He may choose to enter frenzy.
    2) All friendly characters gain +10 to fear and terror tests while 
the Wardancer is charging.
    3) All hostile characters suffer -10 to fear and terror tests while 
the Wardancer is charging.
The warchant lasts until the Wardancer is wounded or spends a round out 
of combat (ie neither attacks or is attacked), but a new chant may be 
raised when the Wardancer charges again.
  Distract:  Holding off an opponent with acrobatic flips and twists.  
The Wardancer may not attack while he is Distracting, but he gains +10 
to his Dodge and Parry tests.  If the Wardancer is wounded, he may not 
use this skill in the next round.
  Whirling Death:  A state of maniacal fury.  The Wardancer may make up 
to double his normal Attacks, but each attack over the normal amount is 
paid for with one wound, due to great strain on the body.  The Wardancer 
mat not parry while using this skill, but may Dodge.  Wound points lost 
through use of this skill may be recovered as normal.  If the Wardancer 
reaches 0 Wounds while in the Whirling Death, he becomes unconscious 
until healed back to 1 Wound.  This skill may not be used in conjunction 
with Distract, Transfix, or Warchant.
 
Psychology
Like all Elves, subject to Animosity against Dwarfs, and also they are 
subject to hatred of all Goblinoids.
 
Weapons and Armour
Wardancers or former Wardancers may not use the special Wardancer skills 
while wearing more than 1 AP of non-magical armour on any location, or 
when using a weapon other than hand-to-hand wpns or thrown missiles.
 

