From: Chris Clements <chris@atmnet.net>
Subject: [WFRP:1562] Bubogall
"Bubogall"

History:

Bubog was a snotling living with a bunch of other snotlings which in turn
were kept as a back-up food source for their larger goblinoid cousins.  As
with most snotlings, Bubog would wet himself in any scary situation (which
any sensible little bugger would do in his place).  Unfortunately, his
larger goblinoid cousins decided it would be fun to seperate the poor pint-sized
Bubog from his pals and would scare him constantly with their cruel antics.

Pitiful small Bubog's mind could not stand their torment, and he was
finally driven insane when they put a large ferocious creature in his
cage with him.  The tiny snotling's brain had produced so much fear it
couldn't produce any more (except at the sight of the horrible beast
kept with him during captivity; but that is another story).  When the
cage was opened during the next feeding time, he attacked the surprised
goblin and fled.  His journeys were many and peril threatened him from
every side, yet Bubog managed to survive.

Then one day Bubog came upon a pretty shiny glowing rock, which he ate
(as any smart hungry snotling would do).  Unknown to Bubog, the rock
he swallowed was a chunk of warpstone.  Oh, the stomach-ache he had!
How he lived through the pain is hard to say, but he did.  After the
agony finally died down, the snotling found he had changed...

It was at this time that the eye of Tzeentch swept over Bubog.  The chaos
god gazed at this snotling that had suffered so many changes and the
great conspirator was pleased.  Tzeentch sent a vision to Bubog, offering
him power beyond his wildest snotlerific dreams.  Without hesitating
(for even Tzeentch could not awe Bubog anymore), he agreed and thus became
a champion of Tzeentch.

Since then, Bubog has changed well beyond of what he once was.  No longer
was he Bubog, but Bubogall - snotling of death (Bu-bo-gall).  He is now a
mighty warrior on the verge of becoming a daemon-prince of Tzeentch.

Appearances:
Bubogall seems to be, at first glance, an ordinary snotling.  Nothing
would give the impression that he is a whirling-terrifying-juggernaut
of chaos who is more than a match for a manticore.  Nope, he just looks small.
The only thing out of the ordinary about him is that he drags a sword behind
him and carries a large wooden plate strapped to his back (his mount).

His reaction to a group of adventurers depends on how they treat him.  If
they attack, he enters butcher mode.  However, if they seem to think him
harmless (possibly adopting him as a mascot), he'll play along... for
a while.  Bubogall can act surprisingly submissive despite all his raw
snotling power.  Nothing in heaven or hell can stay Bubogall's fury when
he enters battle, except perhaps the terrifying sight of long-eared fanged
beast that still haunts his nightmares...

Bubogall; Chaos champion of Tzeentch
M   WS   BS   S   T    W   I   A   Dex   Ld   Int   Cl   Wp   Fel
4   87   77   8   7*   28  90  6   24    54   34    64   64   14

Skills:
Concealment rural, concealment urban, dodge blow, shadowing, silent move
rural, silent move urban, street fighting, strike mighty blow.

Languages: Dark tounge, Snobgob, Reikspeil.

Rewards/Mutations:
Chaos Lord x2 (WS +70, BS +60, S +4, T +2, W +25, I +60, A +5, Ld +40,
              Cl +50, Wp +50; already added into profile). [m]
Breathes fire (6 yards long, 2 yards wide, all within the cone suffer a
              Str 8 hit + d6; test under initiative for 1/2 damage). [m]
Massive intellect (+20 Int; already added into profile). [m]
Chaos ring  * (T +3; already added into profile and it only works for
              snotlings). [r]
Daemonic name (added '-all' to his name). [r]
Gift of Magic (gains spellcasting abilities of a level 1 wizard; 12 mp). [r]
Strength (+3 to strength; already added into profile). [r]
Daemonic steed - disc of Tzeentch (see below). [r]
The Eye of the God (+1 magic level {so Bubogall is a 2nd level wizard}, +10
                   mp; Chaos sword of shrieking - causes fear within 12
                   yards).  [r]

Trappings:
chaos sword {Bubogall uses it one-handed even though it is larger than
             his entire body} - Enchanted; causes fear within 12 yards
             when Bubogall wills it, D +1.
chaos ring (T +3; can only be used by snotlings).
wooden plate - tied onto back with string (actually the disc of Tzeentch).
loincloth

Insanities:
Phobia - rabbits, Heroic Idiocy.

Magic Level: 2     Magic Points: 22
-Spells-
Petty: Curse, gift of tounges, magic flame, marsh lights, open, prot. from
       rain, remove curse, sleep, sounds, zone of silence.

Battle Magic 1: Cause animosity, cure light injury, fireball, strength of
                combat.

Battle Magic 2: Cause Panic, mystic mist, smash.

Quotes:

"Yes, kindy giant!  Bubogall do what you say!"

"Bubogall be good, no hit!"

"Good man, leave Bubogall alone?"

"Now you shall pay for your mocking words and the second hand scraps that
you've fed me!"

"So you like to kick snotlings around, eh?  Try and kick THIS snotling around!"

Disc of Tzeentch
M   WS   BS   S   T   W   I   A   Dex   Ld   Int   Cl   Wp   Fel
12  35   -    3   3   11  30  1   0     90   90    90   90   1

Mutations:
Illusion of normality - looks like a plain wooden plate until used.

--

Well, what can I say?  If I could have posted this anonymously, I would
have (without a doubt).

Now, its not everyday that one encounters a fire-breathing, fearless,
chaos champion, strength-of-a-giant, skilled warrior, intelligent snotling
riding on a piece of flying dinnerware... so try and play up on the
grim shock the characters are bound to face.  That will teach 'em to
watch snotlingball!

Chris Clements
chris@atmnet.com

"Vale, mi amice."

