From: mb0796@rtccnh1.serigate.philips.nl


Cornelius Schneider, Oculist

The old world is, as has been noted, not a very healthy place. Some of the most 
common and debilitating complaints are concerned with the eye, as this part of
the anatomy is particularly vulnerable to maladies brought on by poor diet and 
low levels of heigene. For this reason there are many who make a living travelling
between outlying villages and towns peddling various balms and ointments for
such inflictions.

Cornilius Scneider differs from the average Oculist, who is little more than a
travelling herballist, in that he has had a formal education, attending a course
in Natural Philosophy at the University of Nuln, where he specialised in Optics.
Whilst at the University, Cornelius joined a little known secret society, Known
as the `Fellowship of Free Thought`. 

This society is dedicated to the ideals of freedom of speech, universal education,
social reform and freedom of belief. While it is the first three which have made 
the society universally unpopular with the establishment, it is the last which has
enabled it to take action. Four years ago the society was outlawed for its 
heretical creed, and has since been ruthlessly repressed. 

Cornelius Schneider has therefor abandoned his studies and has taken on this new
guise as a means of travelling between the scattered members of the fellowship.
While he has acquired a proffessionally cheery `bedside manner` anyone who converses
with him on a more social level will quickly percieve Cornelius` bitterness, and 
disenchantment with the system. He will soon open up to anyone he sees as having
similar views to his own, though he will not mention the society itself until he
really trusts them. Cornelius is a useful contact not only for his medical skills
but also for his constant travelling and huge number of unlikely contacts. He is 
likely to know the whereabouts of any member of the intellectual elite of the old
world, including many with "Unorthodox" views or habits.

5ft8 tall  30yrs old medium build, wears glasses


M  WS  BS  S  T  W  I  A  Dex  Ld  In  Cl  Wp  Fel
4  40  30  3  4  8  40 1   60  45  55  55  55  50

Read/write, Herb lore, prepare drugs, Glassworking, Cure disease, Ride horse
secret signs -FFT
  
Horse, books, sword, medicine box, D6 pairs spectacles (100GC each)


Spectacles
not everyone is lucky enough to have perfect vision. your characters eyesight could 
be improved by 2D6-6 percent by wearing a pair of Cornelius` spectacles. The actual
effect depends on wether you are short or long sighted (50% chance of either)
Short sighted: add value calculated above to BS and INIT
Long sighted: add value calculated above to WS and DEX   
