Date: Tue, 8 Oct 96 17:12:36 +0200
From: Michael Andersen <ia9501@knold.ballehs.dk>
To: wfrp@buddha.incite.com
Subject: NPC: Bernard Phillipe de Garcon
Message-ID: <9610081512.AA19400@knold.ballehs.dk>

Hi,

Back in my old WFRP days this character played a general role in some of my
campaigns. He actually started as a player by a guy called Jonathan Nielsen
(A WFRP-dude too, Im going to locate him and try to get some of his earlier
material - which will be shared with you all :) ).
Powerplay or not, here he comes ----->

Bernard Phillipe de Garcon, Alias Sufdilp Gyhr, 2412 - ??
Source: Particular brilliant and lucky player character in a campaign in 
the 
year 2450IC.
In his young student days Sufdilp was lured into Demonic experiment by 
his 
fellow student Otto "Bog" Grueber. Sufdilp was discovered and managed to
escape far into Bretonnia. In Bretonnia he got involved with a group of
adventures, and after infiltrating a Skaven lair, he got his hands on a
rather large amount of 
warpstone. 
Amazed by the powers of warpstone he began to experiment with it - one of
his traveling companions who had threatened Sufdilp earlier, suddenly ended
up mutated. 
Sufdilp managed to gain great knowledge of the warpstone, and found many
ways to use it. He had learned from his earlier experiences at the
university of Nuln, and this time he went to great extremities in order to
keep his experiments a secret. 

Sufdilp is the author of the rare book "A lifetime research on 
warpstone". 
This book hasn't yet been to any use to anyone, as it seems the book was 
only 
written to be used by himself and thus lacks important information.

Sufdilp was not only a  great wizard, he was also a capable man with his 
sword, which he often used instead of his magick. In bretonnia he had 
served 
time with the Duc of Mousillon (before its fall) and received fencing 
training.

In Bretonnia Sufdilp found an apprentice who was ready to join him and 
his 
illegal experiments. Her name was Ann Ummellahahe, a Half-elf left in the 
slum of Mousillon. She was a poor girl shunned from society, but was very 
intelligent and capable of wielding magic. She is perhaps the only one 
capable 
to understand Sufdilp's book, but no-one know where she is today, or if 
she 
at least is alive.

His old fellow student "Bog" was one of Sufdilp's great enemies. "Bog" 
had 
managed to find Sufdilp and was now prepared to kill him, convinced that 
Sufdilp somehow was responsible for the discovery of there experiments.

Sufdilp could be encountered in a number of ways:
1.: Sufdilp hires the players to perform some task. Getting (or stealing) 
some obscure ingredients. The information given to the players will not 
reveal anything about anything illegal or dangerous, but when the players 
realize that its exactly what this task is, they will be too deep 
involved 
to back out. Sufdilp is as likely to reward the players handsomely as he 
is 
to abandon the players without anything. Sufdilp should be played as a 
very 
tactical person who always knows the players next two steps.
2.: Sufdilp has been discovered performing warpstone experiments, and the 
players are either hired to track him down or discovers a wanted poster. 
In 
the course of events the players might be likely to be tripped up by 
Sufdilp 
and forced to change side, perhaps performing tasks as described in the 
above 
example. Perhaps the players will somehow discover Sufdilp's true 
identity 
(he will of course use a cover name as usual) and discover many of the 
other 
crimes he is wanted for. 

Normal campaigns in the year 2512 will make Sufdilp 100 years old, but to 
the players surprise Sufdilp looks like he hasn't aged much since 2450. 
He 
might have found a way to mortality and maybe the players will have a 
share of 
the knowledge instead of killing him.

M WS BS S T  W   I  A Dex Ld Int Cl WP Fel
4 50 49 5 5 10  70  1  65 64  70 67 70  39

Skills: Charm, Acute Hearing, Etiquette, Read/Write, Spot Trap, 
Cast spell/ritual petty + lvl. 1-4, Magick Lores: Scroll - Alchemical - 
Necromantic - Daemon - Rune, Cult Lore - Bright, Arcane Languages: Modern 
- 
Elf - Ancient Dwarf - Ancient Daemon, Secret Language - Classical, 
Meditation, 
Resist Magic, Sense Magic, Elemental Tongue, Identify Magick Artifact, 
Evaluate, Runecraft, Prepare Poison, Demon Lore, Enchant Lesser Artifact, 
Warpstone Lore.

Trappings: Ring of Adamantine (T=7), Potion of Strength, 2 Doses Elfbane, 
2 Doses Manbane, 1 Dose Trollbane, 5 Doses Blackroot, Magic enforced Lead 
box (for warpstone), 4 Warp pinches, 2 Warpstones, Dagger, Focus staff, 
Magic Rune-sword (+20 WS, +2D, +20 Py), 2 Warp bombs (S 8, area: 10 yards)
BMP: 49
