Date: Wed, 12 Jun 1996 18:28:25 -0400 (EDT)
From: Gregory Jay Scott <scott3@america.net>
To: discussion group warhammer <wfrp@buddha.intecom.com>
Subject: NPC
Message-ID: <Pine.SOL.3.91.960611071322.4001A-100000@atl1>

>From her earliest days Hyther knew that she would have only one goal in
life: to cause confusion and trouble. Accordingly she appreticed herself
to a demonologist. Unfortunately for her her master was discovered by the
local populace. While he had some very powerful magic items in his
collection and a very well choosen secret hide-out the mob of irate
villagers did destroy his cornicopia of food. Therefore Hyther became an
assasian to foot the bills. She was actually better at this than at magic.
Assainations were very enjoyiable for her especially seeing the tumoil she
could create with the demise of a public figure. In fact she was better at
this than at magic. She would never get further than an apprentice, but
her skill with ranged weapons became well known. She consentrated on
general her skill area but was undecided on what weapon to specialize in.
Great things were affoot at her masters hide out though, the solitude had
driven her master to the verge of insanity, and when he was forced to
summon his demon ( Gurzgut ) to defend himself against a troop of
adventurers, the shock drove him over the edge. Thinking that that his
might would never amount to much and that he had traded his soul for
naught he spontainiously developed the conviction that he was on the verge
of thwarting Gurzgut by becoming immortal and so escaping the demonic
contract. After the battle, he bragged as much to Gurzgut before he passed
out from the strain. Hyther was around at this point because her master
had summoned her to help against the adventures before he saw how powerful
they were. Gurzgut had made mince meat of them and had not needed Hyther's
help. Gurzgut was very alarmed by the demonologist claim and used his
powers to probe the demonologists catatonic mind.  However so strong was
the delusion that Gurzgut beleaved it was true.  Being unable to harm the
wizard himself because of the terms of the contact he threated Hyther with
death if she did not kill her master.  Knowing that she had little time
before Gurgut's summoning ran out Hyther quickly and with great courage
negotiated a slightly better deal.  Gurzgut agreed only because he felt
that her wishs would fruther the demons own plans. Gurzgut gave her what
she wanted she slit her masters throat. What she got was 1000 peices of
gold, and magic blow pipe, gloves, and pouch, and 100 warp stone darts.
The pipe and pouch prevent warp stone from effecting anything while it is
inside of them and the gloves allow safe handling of warp stone for short
periods of time. The pipe also has a magical +2 to effective strenght. 
Gurzgut transformed the demonologists supply of warp stone into 100 barbed
darts which he enchanted to be more potent mutigens and also to cause no
pain when they hit. They also heal the holes they make within one second
of hitting. One of these is enough to cause a single chaos mutation
with-in one week.(IS this unusually powerful warp stone????). Any mental
mutations will make the victem more chaotic naturally, but specifically
will make the victem more and more a slave of Gurzgut. Hyther took some of
he masters potions and his magic boots. After this Hyther had a large and
wild party in a town about 40 mile away spending a lot of the gold. She
then learned how to use a blow pipe from the assasains guild and then set
of to cause havoc by causing chaos mutations in random prominent figures 
of lawful alignment. Her other favorite target is witch hunters. She 
always trails her victems around for about a month after her stikes to 
watch as their lives deteiorate. She also take the odd simple assasianation
job to pay the bills. Her true apperience is unknown as are her current 
were abouts. While it is known that she has used some of her warp stone 
darts it is not known exactly how many. Since she usually works alone a 
experieced group of adventurers should have no trouble with her. At the 
last she would use the chaos darts so her revenge from beyond the grave 
could be formidible.

M    5
WS   41 
BS   70
S    4
T    4
W    8
I    55
A    3
Dex  50
Ld   31
Int  41
Cl   53
WP   35
Fel  42

Trappings
Blow Pipe of Chaos (see bellow)
Silk Gloves of Gurzgut
Silk Purse of Gurzgut Containing 60+6d6 warpstone darts
Sword
Mail Shirt
Shield

Boots of Concealment containing:
	 Silk Purse of Gurzgut
	 Blow Pipe of Chaos
	 100 poisoned darts
	 50 hallucinegenic darts
	 50 K.O. Darts
	 2 potions of disguise
	 Grapling hook and as much rope as will fit.
         500 Gold peices
Magic points:8
Spells:
Open
Gift of Tongues

Skills
Herb lore and prepair poisons (to make posions, seditives and hallucinegens)
SW-Blow pipe
Disguise
Move silent urban
Move Silent Rural
Strike mighty blow
Shadowing
Concealment Urban
Concealment Rural
Marksmanship
Scale shear surface
