Subject: Three NPC's
From: IrishSpy@aol.com
Date: Tue Jun 28 21:18:07 CDT 1994
Message-Id: <9406282311.tn145621@aol.com>
Reply-To: wfrp@monsta.metronet.com

Hi all,

This post contains three NPC's for an adventure proposal I was
writing for Flame Publications -- well, we all know what happened to them. 
:(  The adventure was set in Kemperbad, which explains the location
references.

Luigi Belladonna is "the Godfather" of the criminal underworld in
Kemperbad. A description of the town itself can be found in Death on the
Reik.  By the way, I always try to open a description with a quote or two
from or about the character or place -- it helps to set the tone.

As usual, feel free to adapt these characters to your own games.  I
do retain my copyrights in the characters and their stories, while the
system-specific material is copyright Games Workshop.  Have fun. :)

copyright 1994
Anthony Ragan

Blind Willem


M:4  WS:41  BS:44  S:2  T:4  W:10  I:42  A:1  DX:42  LD:38  INT:50  CL:53
WP:40  FEL:48


SKILLS

Ambidextrous; ride--horse; lightning reflexes; scale sheer surface;
very resilient; disarm; dodge blow; secret language--battle tongue;  street
fighting; strike mighty blow; animal care; acting; blather; charm; disguise;
mimic; palm object; wit; consume alcohol.

CAREER:  Charlatan

CAREER PATH:  Soldier, entertainer (actor), charlatan.

AGE:  33                      ALIGNMENT:  Neutral

DESCRIPTION:  Looks like a filthy beggar, around 60-70 years old.  Looks
diseased, ugly, scarred.  Blind eyes.  Recites poetry and scenes from
classical plays.

HIS STORY:

Blind Willem:  "Tarry a moment, gentle lord or lady--for I know not
which you are!--spare a penny or two for an old soldier.  Ah, bless you,
noble soul!  
ay the gods serve you and keep you, and may joy shine upon you
like a rosy spring dawn'--Gloriana, act one, scene two.  Bless you."

A Kemperbad coppersmith:  "Poor old Willem.  He was a brave soldier
once, but a greenskin threw hot pitch in his face and took his sight.  He's
amazingly literate, though.  Always entertaining folks with quotes from this
or that.  I can usually spare him a shilling or two when I see him.  His
attitude is wonderful for one struck so low."

Blind Willem:  "City the beggar, all ye with a roof and a hearth,
for he is the cherished nestling of the White Dove,'--Merciful Precepts of
Shallya, book IV, verse 17.  Blessings to you my child.  (Hmmm....Gold and
ruby bracelet under the cuff.  The ravens will be interested.  Nice legs,
too.)"

A Middenlander tourist:  "Filthy wretch!  I bent to give him a brass
penny, and he clutched his dirty claws about my wrists trying to thank me.
Oh, and his rum-laden breath!  I can still smell the stink.  My husband
would have struck him then and there, but the crowd laughed and protected
him!  How these Reiklanders can tolerate such scum on their streets is
beyond me. Worst of all, I lost my grandmother's bracelet in Kemperbad!
I've no idea where."

If he weren't so lazy, Gunnar of Nuln might well have been one of
the greatest actors in the Empire. As it is, his life has been one long
quest for the most crowns for the least effort.  Raised in the slums of
Nuln, he joined a light cavalry unit as a youth to find excitement.  What he
got instead was discipline, endless drill, and constant abuse from his
sergeant and mates.

One day, a travelling carnival passed through Nuln and Gunnar
decided he had had enough.  The life of a travelling player was the one for
him.  Touring from town to town, meeting pretty ladies, sleeping late, and
accepting the accolades and moneys of the crowds:  it was a dream of
paradise.  At his first chance, he deserted his unit and joined the circus
as it left Nuln.

Though he showed great talent as an actor, the truth was far
different from his fantasies.  Up before dawn, interminable rehearsals,
breaking camp and cleaning up after the dancing bears--this was not what
Gunnar wanted!  The money was lousy, too, since the carnival master took the
largest share. There had to be an easier way to live life and get rich.

While performing in Altdorf, Gunnar snuck away from rehearsal to
wander about and see the sights.  On a square near Brass Alley, he saw the
most amazing thing:  a one-legged beggar was telling jokes to the crowd, and
they were giving him money!  No kicks, no abuse, no spittle, but pennies and
shillings and even the occasional gold crown!

Gunnar watched him for hours, then followed him into a tavern where
the old cripple proceeded to drink away his treasure.  Talking to the
publican, Gunnar found out that this had been going on for years.  If that
beggar hadn't been an alcoholic, he would have been wealthy.

Gunnar had at last found his "easy street."  Returning to the
carnival, he stole a make-up kit, some wigs, and a pair of milk-glass lenses
that allowed actors to portray blind men while still being able to see. Then
he bought passage on a riverboat to Bogenhafen and used the time to perfect
his act.

Thus was born "Blind Willem."  For the next several years the
streets of Bogenhafen were home to an old soldier well-schooled in
literature, but reduced to begging and drink by the horrible wounds he had
suffered in combat.  Working a spot near the temple of Shallya, he could
play on the piety of passersby; he was more successful than he had dared
hope.  By day he earned his money as Blind Willem and by night he could live
the life of a well-heeled young gentleman.  Only the owner of a seedy
pawnshop from whom he rented a loft knew his secret.  A few shillings a week
were enough to buy his silence.

After a while the wanderlust bug bit again and Gunnar, now "Willem,"
sailed up the Reik and decided to stay in Kemperbad.  It was easy to set up
the same arrangements here as in Bogenhafen. Soon Blind Willem was a
sentimental fixture on Kemperbad's streets.

The city's beggars are under the "protection" of Belladonna's
racketeers, and Willem has had to come to terms with them.  That was fairly
easy to do, since the value of a sighted "blind man" was obvious to the
criminals. This "blind man's bluff" has paid off for them, having been the
source of many valuable tips. Willem's secret has been restricted to a
chosen few among the Corvi ("ravens"), including Luigi Belladonna himself.


Wilhelmina Thistledown -and- The Merry Whistler Inn

M:4  WS:49  BS:58  S:3  T:2  W:9  I:68   A:1  DX:41  LD:37  INT:47  CL:32
WP:55  FEL:53

SKILLS

Cook; silent move rural; cryptography; excellent vision; dodge blow;
animal care; drive cart; etiquette; evaluate; haggle; numismatics; palm
object; super numerate.

CAREER:  Fence                RACE:  Halfling

CAREER PATH:  Servant, trader, fence.

AGE:  75                      ALIGNMENT:  Neutral

DESCRIPTION:  Heavy, round build, barely 4'0" tall.  Looks like everyone's
Grandma.  Rosy cheeks, greying hair tied up in a bun. A protective, doting
woman.  Loves to feed people.  Smokes cigars when alone.

HER STORY:

A Four Seasons coaching agent:  "If I may advise you, take your
honeymoon in Kemperbad at the Merry Whistler Inn.  It's perched right at the
town's edge atop the Reik-side cliffs. You'll have a beautiful view of the
river and the Reikwald.  The food is superb, too.  All prepared by
Wilhelmina Thistledown, the proprietress.  Many couples go again and again. 
Why, I book one Altdorf couple three times a year!"

Wilhelmina Thistledown:  "Just call me Aunt Mina, dearie. You've
come for breakfast?  Perhaps you'd like to sit out on the terrace--you can
just see the Grey Mountains today.  Now, what will you have?  Ham and eggs,
with bayberry marmalade?  I see....[in a whisper]...Right!  Meet me in the
tack room behind the stables, ten minutes.  Make like you're going to the
garderobe.  And don't forget to pay for breakfast!  You wouldn't want to
upset Edgar, would you, dearie?"

A Reik river smuggler:  "Don't know, mate, those are some hot
potatoes you got there.  Can't think of anyone who'd want....wait, I just
'membered!  Down river a ways in Kemperbad there's a bed and breakfast
called the Merry Whistler, run by a Halfling.  Nah, I'm not tugging your
beard, mate!  She's the biggest fence on the whole middle Reik. Go there for
breakfast, ask for the bayberry marmalade, it ain't on the menu.  Just don't
get funny with her, she's the 
an's' favorite."

In a city known for romance and weddings, it's only natural for
there to be many inns and hostelries catering to newlyweds and tourists. 
Among the best of these is the Merry Whistler, owned and run by Wilhelmina
Thistledown.  Her bed and breakfast is very popular with both tourists and
locals.  Built into the old wall along the Reik-side cliffs, it boasts very
comfy rooms, excellent food, and a magnificent view from its terrace.
Coaching and riverboat agents from as far away as Talabheim and Marienburg
recommend it to their clients.  It's nearly always booked months in advance.

Of course, that's understandable when the most popular hotel in
Kemperbad is also a front for the biggest fencing operation between Nuln,
Talabheim and Altdorf.  Many local thieves will "go for breakfast" and order
the bayberry marmalade, a signal that they have something to sell.  The
staff will direct them to the tack room in the stables, where they will be
met by Edgar the blacksmith/bodyguard and Aunt Mina, who will be smoking the
foul cigar she always lights when doing business.  Mina will always give
good prices, typically about 35% of value, or 30% if the item is
particularly "hot."  A successful bargain test will add 5% to the price she
is willing to pay.  She will insist that the client stay and pay for
breakfast.  "A working man must keep up his strength, dearie," she says.

Many of the newlywed couples and tourists who stay at the inn are
actually agents representing the biggest gangs in the Empire, Marienburg,
and Brettonia.  They come to see what's available or by special invitation
of Aunt Mina.  Stolen goods are sold at roughly 60% of street value, or more
if the item is well-known or several gangs are bidding for it.  A successful
bargain test will reduce her selling price by 5%.  Many clients make regular
trips several times a year, including the Wastelander fence who supplies
Mina with Lustrian cigars.

Aunt Mina has been able to operate for the past 25 years because of
the special patronage of Luigi Belladonna.  Years ago, when Belladonna was
fighting for his life in the gang war that gave him control of the Kemperbad
rackets, Aunt Mina gave him shelter at a dangerous moment.  Belladonna never
forgot, and, after he had won, he set her up in the Merry Whistler.  She is
under his special protection, and no one in his right mind would ever think
of harming or double-crossing his "mama piccola."

Players new to Kemperbad can hear of the Merry Whistler through
contacts when they try to sell or trace stolen goods. Perhaps they will be
visiting the inn for its famous breakfasts and become suspicious when two or
three men all order bayberry marmalade and then disappear for a time.  They
might order it themselves and then have to explain to Aunt Mina why they
have no goods to sell.  [And Edgar has no sense of humor at all.]  Aunt Mina
can also be a source of training to players wishing to follow a fence's
career or seeking a meeting with Luigi Belladonna.  He will be less
suspicious of anyone referred by her.
 

Magistrate Julius Haufschneider

M:3  WS:33  BS:28  S:5  T:4  W:9  I:39   A:2  DX:27  LD:56  INT:66  CL:48
WP:40  FEL:43

SKILLS

Acute Hearing; excellent vision; dance; scale sheer surface;
ride--horse; strike mighty blow; strike to stun; arcane language magick;
read/write--Old Worlder; secret language--classical; astronomy; cartography;
numismatics; speak additional language--Tilean dialect; law; secret
signs--lawyer; etiquette.

CAREER:  Lawyer.

CAREER PATH:  Watchman, student, lawyer.

AGE:  56					ALIGNMENT:  Evil

DESCRIPTION:  5'9".  172 lbs.  Salt & pepper hair.  Brown eyes.  Balding,
portly, stern, jowly face.  Gestures with hands while talking.  Wears dark
clothes.  Has a rat's tail.

A Kemperbad watchman:  "Yah, old stoneheart is a harsh one, alright.
Everything strictly by the book.  Why, the other day, he tossed a young
widow and her kid out on the street and siezed their goods when their
landlord sued for back rent.  They were only behind a little bit, but he
law is the law,' he said.  You'd think he were a priest of Solkan or
something!"

A poor tinker:  "He really has it in for us, that he does.  Has it
in for all of us not born on a bed of clover.  All I was trying to do was
sell a newlywed couple a good-luck set of tin spoons--you know, something
traditional and romantic.  They'd already been to the cutlery shops and
didn't want to pay their prices.  I was just giving them a good deal, and
for that he fines me 50 crowns!  He says I violated guild-assigned
territory,pah!  He just hates poor folk trying to make an honest schilling."	

A Kemperbad merchant:  "Julius is a good man, but he has a duty to
uphold the law.  It's true, he's become more stern since the death of his
wife many years ago.  She was murdered, you see.  Since then, he has been
relentless in his fight against crime."

A priest of Sigmar:  "Magistrate Haufschneider may be harsh to those
who break the law, but he is truly generous to those less fortunate than he. 
Look at his niece Annemike:  her father dies when she is a babe; her mother
falls to death in a tragic accident.  He has taken Annemike under his wing
and given her the best of everything.  Believe me, it hasn't been easy.  The
girl can be a hellcat sometimes.  And here in our own temple, he has endowed
a school for the children of our watchmen and roadwardens.  Julius
Haufschneider is a fine role model for our youth."

Magistrate Julius Haufschneider--lawyer, councilman, and property
owner-- is a living tragedy.  Scion of a fine middle-class family, he joined
the watch at an early age out of an idealistic desire to serve the city. 
His natural leadership and energy quickly won him recognition and a
sergeant's baton, but his natural calling lay on another path.

His fine intellect lead him to study law, and he has had a brilliant
career as a lawyer and judge.  After a few years, he was elected to
Kemperbad's governing Council of Thirteen and became one of its four
executive magistrates. His family prospered and he had the respect of all
who knew him. Life was good, and then it all came crashing down.

One night, fifteen years ago, his beautiful wife Maria Donau was
murdered by a cutthroat for her purse of a few crowns.  For all his efforts,
for all his zeal and intellect, he could never bring his wife's killer to
justice.  The bitterness was with him for years, and he took his revenge on
all who came before his bench by applying the law with no hint of mercy.

Something changed in Julius Haufschneider.  The idealist in him had
died and been reborn a twisted parody of itself.  He saw the inexorable
decay of society mirrored in the faces that came through his court every
day.  The greedy landlord was no less an agent of that decay than the
murdering thug or the drug-selling bawd.  To Haufschneider, the end was
inevitable: civilization would fall into ruins, and in those ruins the only
law would be the law of power.

With this revelation there came conversion.  If only the powerful
would rule amidst the ruins, then why shouldn't Julius Haufschneider be
among the rulers?  Indeed, why shouldn't he work to hasten that glorious
day, when the mighty would rip away society's hypocritical smile?

Through an arrested cultist it was easy to contact the Skaven and
join the cult of the Horned Rat.  Once again he rose rapidly to leadership
and used his judicial powers to advance the cult's interests.  He would sow
the seeds of chaos by the ruthless enforcement of every petty, archaic, and
irrational law on the books.  While seeming to defend society, he would
attack it by fueling those resentments the poor hold for the rich.

Haufschneider grew wealthy.  His fortune was made when he arranged
the murder of his sister-in-law Andrea Koelb and had himself appointed his
niece's legal guardian.  Wealth and power, all that truly mattered in life,
were his at last.

At least, they were his until a month ago.  Then his niece fell in
love with a wretched half-Norscan scribe and found a legally unstoppable way
to wed. He didn't dare lose control of her fortune, for both he and the cult
needed the money.  Then the Skaven demanded his niece instead of the scribe,
and threatened to expose him if he didn't comply.  The surrender of his own
flesh and blood to them tore at what little humanity he had left, but what
else could he do?

Then, it happened.  The morning after the Skaven took Annemike,
Julius Haufschneider awoke to find a rat's tail growing from his body, the
physical sign of his inner depravity.  Haufschneider knew it was all over,
that he could not long hide what he had become.  Now, his mind is going and
he keeps repeating to himself a proverb heard from a priest of Solkan in his
youth: "By fire shall the world be destroyed, and by fire shall it be
cleansed."

**** END ****

-- 
.' '.                    Internet: apile10@scu.edu.au
Southern Cr
oss University
Lismore NSW Australia
