From: Chris Clements <chris@atmnet.net>
Subject: Der Rissigvolk

--Der Rissigvolk--

Der Rissigvolk is a group of madmen who managed to escape
from the Shallyian asylum, the Great Hospice, and decided
to band together for mutual protection.  They go from
town to town, avoiding the authorities, spreading chaos
and confusion in their wake.


Baron Karl-Maximillian van der Maacht (?)
Demagouge, ex-agitator.
(Aligment: Good)

"Marienburg is in need of a true ruler.  Thankfully, I've
returned..."

"Of course I'm telling the truth.  Why in the Emperor's name would
I lie about something like that?"

"My companions and I do not wish to cause any problems officer.
We will be on our way."

Karl-Maximillian van der Maacht is a man who claims to be the rightful
heir to the noble line of rulers of Marienburg.  Of course, he is not
alone in his claims.  Hundreds, if not thousands, have at one time
or another tried to prove themselves of the noble van der Maacht blood
in the hopes of a quick road to power and wealth.  What sets Karl-
Maximillian apart from the others is he actually believes that
he is the ruler of Marienburg currently, plain and simple.  The
man "...is a few tunnels short of a mine" as the dwarves say.

Besides the obvious quirk in his personality, Karl-Maximillian can
and actually does pass for an everyday charming sane individual.
Only when the topics of Marienburg, politics, or nobility come up
does he off-handily mention that he rules the famous coastal city.
Any claims to the contrary will be taken as some sort of silly
joke, which he will laugh good naturedly at.  No one knows what
his real name is, perhaps in some quirk of fate he really is
of the van der Maacht line.  Not likely, but within the realm of
possiblility.

Karl-Maximillian is the de facto ruler of Der Rissigvolk.  He
can pass as sane better than any of his companions, and his
intelligence coupled with his natural leadership abilities make
him the most obvious choice.  That and the fact that he already
rules the Wasteland...

Personality:
The 'Baron', as he is called by the rest of Der Rissigvolk, is
a down-to-earth fellow who shows a keen wit and disarming smile.
He is pleasant company, and shows compassion for those who are
down on their luck.  All in all, a real gentleman.  Karl-Maximillian
has a good heart and he's willing to put himself in danger to lend
a helping hand.  His only real flaw is... well, he's nuts!

Physical Description: 
A handsome fellow, Karl-Maximillian is only a few years shy of
thirty.  He has well-groomed red hair and sports a neatly trimmed
mustache.  Most of the time the Baron is constantly smiling.  He
always is dressed immaculately.

M:4  WS:43  BS:41  S:3  T:5  W:9  I:57  A:2  Dex:27  Ld:54  Int:47
Cl:53  Wp:36  Fel:55

Skills: blather, dodge blow, flee!, heraldry, history, public speaking,
read/write, street fighting.

Trappings: old decorated sword, 'authentic' birth certificate, tarnished
gold medallion; (as listed under career trappings); (as listed under
career trappings).

Insanities: Personal delusion (?) - believes he is heir to the van der
Maacht line and the current rightful ruler of Marienburg.


Dalruk the Clanless (Bindel Merryfellow)
Halfling Giant Slayer(!), ex-troll slayer(!), ex-tunnel fighter, ex-
rat catcher.

"You want to keep breath'n?  Then step aside before ya taste my
axe!"

"Slayer, KILL!"

"You're calling me a liar?  You're braver than I thought!"

Life was once normal for the jolly halfling Bindel Merryfellow.
He had a wonderful family and received six square meals a day.
His job as a rat catcher may not have been the most glamorous, but
it paid the bills well enough.  Things got bad though when he
decided to try his hand at adventuring with a few of his dwarven
friends.  The trip itself was fraught with danger and he lost
his dwarf companions, but that was not the worst of it.  He received
a powerful blow to the head by a goblin as he fled, and the
little warrior has yet to fully recover his senses from the wound.
When he finally returned home, half alive, Bindel found his small
home burnt to the ground.  His wife and children did not survive
the accidental fire.  The halfling snapped.

Bindel Merryfellow disappeared that night, lost in his own mind.
Dalruk the Clanless was born.  The halfling had long admired the
dwarven folk for their stoic bravery in the face of adversity, in
some ways he longed for some small part of that courage himself.
All the horrible events Bindel had experienced caused his mind
to latch onto the idea and warp his admiration for dwarves into
something altogether different; he became a dwarf.  Not just
any dwarf though; because he failed to protect his family, his
shame drove him to seek death as a troll slayer.

Amazingly, Dalruk was able to survive the chance encounters
he happened upon.  His greatest triumph was in slaying a giant
spider with a lucky blow, he still carries around the fangs
on a necklace proudly.  As it was, he was subdued by an alert
bounty hunter (hired by a rich family friend) after Dalruk had
too much to drink.  The Great Hospice accepted him immediately
upon learning of his condition.  He has stayed there for more
than four years, brooding about yet another dishonor when
he escaped with the other Rissigvolk.

Personality: 
Bindel is a deeply troubled individual.  He often swings from
emotional extremes, but always with a quiet melancholy right
below the surface.  The halfling (er, dwarf) has no time for
fools, and will NOT back down from any challenge.  Not that
he goes out of his way looking for problems from other people...

Physical Description: 
A muscular tall (for his race) halfling, Bindel can sometimes
be mistaken for a dwarf.  He sports a large (5") bright blue
mowhawk and his body is covered with dark grey swirl-patterned
tattos.  Bindel also wears a long fake beard which is dyed a
lighter shade of blue than his mowhawk.

M:3  WS:55  BS:34  S:4  T:5  W:11  I:67  A:2  Dex:44  Ld:21  Int:26
Cl:47  Wp:52  Fel:35

Skills: animal trainer dog, concealment urban, cook, disarm,
dodge blow, immunity to disease, immunity to poison, orientation
(underground only), scale sheer surface, secret language battle
tounge, set trap, silent move urban, specialist weapon flail,
specialist weapon sling, specialist weapon two-handed, spot trap,
strike mighty blow, strike to injure, strike to stun, very
resilient (already added into profile).

Trappings: two handed axe (D+2, I-10), sling (24s/36l/150e; ES 3),
three daggers (D-2, I+10), purse with 13 guilders 12/8, fake
light-blue beard.

Insanities: Personal delusional - thinks he is a dishonored dwarf;
heroic idiocy, phobia - fire.


Slayer
Vicious Little Dog

"Ruff!  Ruff!"

"...<hic>...<hic>....<hic>....ruff...<hic>..."

Dalruk's tiny mutt from his rat catching days, the halfling 
decided that his dishonor would extend to his animal to.  Hence,
he has shaved Slayer of all its his fur except for a mowhawk running
down the dog's back, which is dyed bright orange.  The loyal
canine is a bewildering sight, one which most people either
laugh at or run away in fright from.  Slayer looks more bizarre
than his master, which is quite a feat considering the halfling's
appearance.

As a side note, Slayer drinks more than water.  The finest wines to
the most horrible rotgut, this little dog will gulp it all down with
enthusiasm.  How he acquired this unique taste is a mystery even
to Dalruk.  The off-balanced halfling seems to think it fitting
however, and often buys Slayer a bowl or two of alcohol when he
gets the chance.

M:6  WS:41  BS:0  S:2  T:2  W:3  I:30  A:1  Dex:-  Ld:43  Int:14
Cl:43  Wp:43  Fel:-

Special Rules: Alcoholism (test to see if drunk - on a roll of 1
on a 1d6 this pooch is plastered; i.e. intoxicated).


Walter van Houten (?)
Charlatan, ex-hypnotist.

"You can no longer just walk, you MUST skip.  Otherwise, we all
will be doomed by the curse of the evil cheeses!"

"See my pretty amulet... nice, eh?"

"Are you sure?  Take a closer look... now do you see that he's
a dwarf and not a halfling?"

"You are a chicken!"

A troubled child, Walter was having problems dealing with the real
world even at that young age.  It grew worse as he grew older;
he would make up fantastic stories and entertain himself in front
of the mirror, watching himself speak.  His parents decided enough
was enough, and dropped him off into the care of an older physician
when Walter was only twelve.  The physician was a hypnotist of
some skill, and was interested in the effects it might have on
someone with the boy's problems.  Unfortunately, his long treatments
did nothing for Walter.  The physician, being a kind man, raised the
youth and helped him best he could.  Walter learned his trade from
his guardian, and at the age of seventeen he left to see the world.
Not that his problems went away...

Walter, as a hypnotist, had a tendency to use his skill to convince
people of his fantastic lies.  This caused some major mishaps which
put him in trouble with the law.  Luckily a priestess of Shallya
got to Walter first and had him committed to the Great Hospice for
his own protection.  He was only there for a few months when he
managed to hypnotize an orderly into helping him and his recently
acquired friends ('Der Rissigvolk') escape.

Personality: 
Walter can be described as 'intense'.  It's not that he isn't
friendly, but the man is constantly talking (even when alone and
asleep) and people tend to be put off by his constant eye
contact.  Some people actually suffer severe migraines
in his presence.  He is always making outrageous claims, and
seems to thrive on tall tales.  One thing is for sure, life
is never dull around Walter...

Physical Description: 
A rather average looking lad, Walter looks far younger than his
twenty-six years would indicate.  He has short blonde hair and
a mouth that never stops moving.  His deep blue eyes never seem
to blink.  He would be unrememberable save the constant level of
noise around him.  Walter's clothing changes with his current
story.

M:4  WS:26  BS:34  S:3  T:3  W:8  I:55  A:1  Dex: 57  Ld:37  Int:53
Cl:34  Wp:57  Fel:42

Skills: blather, charm, disguise, evaluate, hypnotize, magical
awareness, mimic, palm object, public speaking, ride, super
numerate, wit.

Trappings: shiny silver medallion; (as listed under career trappings).

Insanities: Moderate delusion - believes own lies, pathalogical lying,
narcissism, talks to self, minor disorder - talks in sleep.


Pondrue the Gifted (Sigmund Uber)
Protagonist, ex-seer.

"......"

"The bones... they say you are about to loose a few teeth."

"YOU DOUBT MY WORD?!"

"Whenwillyoulearnandwhydoyounotlistenthebonestellthefuture!"

An older man, Pondrue can easily be identified as insane just from
the mad look in his eyes.  He has seen the future, and it is not
kind.  As a younger lad, he began to exhibit the power of precognition.
Sadly, it was also during this time that his actions grew more and more
unusual.  Sigmund (Pondrue's given name) would either be found in
a highly excitable state or lethargically sitting in the corner
for hours on end.  His worst problem, however, was without a doubt
the seer's inability to accept criticism in any form in regards
to the vailidity of his divinations.  If anyone expressed the slightest
reservations about his portents, Sigmund would fly into a mad rage in
which he would attack said unwise individual.

His career took a turn for the worse when he assaulted a noble
whom had mocked his prophecy about the man being savagely beaten
by a lunatic.  Needless to say, the noble lost a few teeth and
Sigmund was found criminally insane by a merciful magistrate.
The seer was committed to the Great Hospice.  He has been there for
over fifteen years, day in and day out reading the future with rat
bones.  That is, he was there until he escaped with the other
members of Der Rissigvolk.

Personality: 
Depending on whether he is manic or depressive, Pondrue can fade
into the background or be as loud as a dragon.  Whatever the
case, he knows he is always right.  He isn't afraid to let other
people know it either.  As long as no one contradicts him, they
should be all right.  When he is agitated Pondrue tends to yell
and speak very quickly.

Physical Description: 
An wrinkled balding man who appears to be in his late sixties,
Pondrue is always dressed in filthy robes.  His physical encounters
have left little in the way of teeth for him, and his piercing
gaze leaves no doubt as to his mental well being.  He's a lot
stronger and tougher than he looks (the strength of the mad)...

M:4  WS:44  BS:28  S:4  T:4  W:8  I:47  A:2  Dex:29  Ld:44  Int:41
Cl:48  Wp:37  Fel:37

Skills: arcane language magick, blather, charm animal, disarm,
divination - bones, dodge blow, luck, magical sense, public
speaking, ride, street fighting, strike mighty blow, strike to
injure, strike to stun.

Trappings: bag of small chunks of various bones, bone knuckledusters;
(as listed under career trappings).

Insanities: Animosity vs. those who dismiss his divinations,
manic depressive, meglomaniac.


Oskar the Blacksword, Captain Blacksword
Sea Captain, ex-marine.

"Avast ye scurvy eel, where be the nearest house of ale?"

"Be quiet Pappy!  I be doing the speaking for us!"

"Ye be a fine woman.  Care to share a cot with the
deadliest man ever to sail the perilous seas?"

"Arrrh, matey!"

A reknowned pirate, Captain Blacksword and his crew were a feared
sight off the waters of Marienburg.  The Captain himself was
well-known for his impressive combat skills.  Blacksword, his
ship, and his crew died over five years ago in a deadly encounter
with the Marienburg Navy; at least, that is what everyone thinks.
Blacksword survived, abliet quite a changed man.  He literally
washed ashore half-mad with thirst, hunger, and fear.

His brush with death was unpleasant to say the least, and Oskar
still believes in the vivid terrible hallucinations he suffered
while drifting in the sea.  The sea... it was alive; a creature
of Manaan's vengance, and it wanted him.  The water still calls
to him to this very day...

Luckily for the pirate, 'Pappy', his parrot, managed to encourage
him to fight for life when he was ready to give up hope.  It
promised to lead him to land if only Blacksword would give
the bird one of his eyes, to which he accepted.  Remarkably,
Blacksword did manage to beat the odds.  Pappy the parrot,
however, was dead as a doornail; Blacksword hasn't seemed to
notice.

Personality:
Blacksword speaks his mind, and his speech is never anything but
coarse.  He tends to say "Arrrh, matey!" a lot; people seem to
expect it, so he has decided to comply.  He is (obviously) deathly
afraid of any large bodies of water, and becomes pale if anyone
talks about Manaan.  Other than that, he can be quite amicable,
if somewhat annoying.  He tends to speak to and talk about
his parrot, Pappy, quite a lot.  After all, he owes Pappy his
life.

Physical Description:
The stereotypical pirate, Blacksword is a well-built man in his
late thirties with a large black beard dominating his features.
He also has a black eyepatch over his left eye and wears a
peg leg on his left leg (an old battle wound).  His skin is
well tanned from his many days on the sea, with an almost
leather-like appearance.

M:2  WS:63  BS:20*  S:5  T:4  W:11  I:48  A:3  Dex:47  Ld:49  Int:37
Cl:35  Wp:43  Fel:35

* his BS goes up to 41 if he somehow overcomes his delusion about
his eye.

Skills: animal trainer parrot, boat building, consume alcohol, disarm,
dodge blow, numismatics, row, sailing, specialist weapon fencing sword,
sixth sense, story telling, street fighting, strike mighty blow, strike
to stun, swim, very strong (already added into profile).

Trappings: Peg leg (left leg), stuffed parrot 'Pappy', eye patch
(over left eye), rapier (D-1, I+20), *enchanted sword (+1 damage,
berserk), tri-coned hat with skull & crossbone symbols on it;
(as listed under career trappings).

Insanities: Hydrophobia (fear of water), trivial delusion - believes
stuffed animals are still alive, trivial delusion - thinks he can not
see out of his left eye (it works fine, if he would remove the
eyepatch that is), moderate delusion - believes the sea and rivers
want him to drown and are angry at him because he escaped his fate,
trivial delusion - believes his parrot is as intelligent as a human.


Herpin Schwindel
Counterfeiter, ex-forger, ex-scribe.

"Milord, it truly is a great pleasure to meet your grace."

"How may I serve, oh Baron of Marienburg?"

"I must warn you of a great danger, your highness, that threatens
the very world."

"Our foes are the crafty cheeses which stock our pantry!  We must
destroy them and soon or face the consequences, Duchess."

"Here is a coin worthy of your inspiring visage, my king."

Herpin was a crafty criminal who made (literally) enough
money to ensure his financial security for the rest of his
life.  Unforunately, just after his early retirement, the
counterfeiter ate a stale piece of cheese which had a highly toxic
fungus growing in it.  The bad cheese induced a high fever from which
he barely survived and only partially recovered from.  He was never
the same after that, and Herpin believed that his fever-induced dreams
were, in fact, reality.

In his dreams everyone he met was at the very least a powerful
noble.  These nobles spoke kindly to him, hiring him to mint
their coinage and warning him of the dangers chaos cheese
infiltrating the land.  He took their message to heart, and
began his crusade to mint a coin for all the nobles in the
world (i.e. everyone) and destroy the daemon-cheeses to save
the Empire from their terrible foe.

Let's just say it didn't take to long for the sisters of the
hospice to catch this one...

Personality:
Herpin is one of the most well-mannered individuals within the
Old World (thanks to his delusions).  Everyone he meets is treated
with a great reverance in which Herpin does a lot of bowing and
flattering.  He is dead serious in the matter of the dangers of 
daemonic cheese bent on destroying the world, which he will speak
for hours on (being polite, mind you).

Physical Description:
Slightly overweight, Herpin usually wears large baggy clothing
to conceal his extra pounds.  He has light brown hair which
he is constantly combing with his fingers.  His voice has
a slight nasal quality to it.  Despite his extra bulk, Herpin
manages to achieve a slight graceful bounce to his step when
he ambles to and fro.

M:4  WS:43  BS:45  S:4  T:4  W:9  I:54  A:2  Dex:78  Ld:37  Int:65
Cl:54  Wp:50  Fel:46

Skills: ambidextrous, arcane language magick, art - carve wooden
seals, coin dies, handwriting; etiquette, heraldry, metallurgy,
numismatics, read/write, secret language classical, speak
additional language - Breton, super numerate.

Trappings: various coins (over 200 crowns) with numerous people
featured (including the Rissigvolk), cheese cutter (knife ->
I+10, D-2, P-20); (as listed under career trappings).

Insanities: Trivial delusion - the money he mints is 'real', serious
delusion - believes everyone he meets is a member of the nobility
(and he treats them accordingly), serious delusion - cheeses are
actually daemons of Chaos attempting to destroy the world.


Adventure Ideas:
The motley 'Rissigvolk' group provide plenty of ideas for adventures
in which the characters can become entangled in.  Here are a few
suggestions:

"Catch the Madmen"
The PCs are hired by the Great Hospice to retrieve the escaped
lunatics.  They must follow Der Rissigvolk's path of weirdness
in order to catch them.  Once found, you can bet that they don't
want to go back.


"A Coin or Two"
To the PCs misfortune, they happen to meet Herpin Schwindel
(and possibly other members of Der Rissigvolk).  Herpin is
later 'convinced' by Walter that it is vitally important to mint
as many coins as possible of the characters and to spread them
around town.  This leads to the PCs being hunted by the watch.
The group must evade the law and track down Der Rissigvolk to
clear their names.


"Chance Meetings"
Der Rissigvolk just happen to stumble into the PCs latest adventure,
helping to add a sense of chaotic mayhem.  Imagine Der Rissigvolk
running around Middenheim during the events of "Power Behind the
Throne"...

