From welsh_nh@ee.uwa.edu.auTue Oct  3 14:36:48 1995
Date: Tue, 3 Oct 1995 11:19:51 +0800 (WST)
From: noel welsh <welsh_nh@ee.uwa.edu.au>
Reply to: The wfrp mailing list <wfrp@gojira.monsta.com>
To: wfrp@gojira.monsta.com
Subject: WFRP: An NPC character

Rocertus Voodersteen
A artisan/scholar for any fantasy roleplaying system

  A brief introductory note: In an attempt to make this article 
systemless and worldless, I haven't included any specifics 
about Rocertus, such as where he studies (Monastery or 
University etc.), or how he grew up (The merchant class wasn't 
really powerful until the start of the Renaissance, so in a 
standard D&D adventure, Rocertus' family may not have been very 
rich). This missing information may have had a profound effect 
on Rocertus' personality. That's up to you to decide. At the 
end of the article, I'll give Warhammer specific information 
for Rocertus detailing a bit more about him.

  Rocertus is a merchant's son, whose family trades in rare and 
expensive curiosities for the nobility. Rocertus was always 
fascinated by the intricate mechanical toys his father 
collected. Whilst his elder siblings were brawling, he would be 
found crouched over some complex mechanical device, surrounded 
by a litter of cogs and springs, probing the innards of the 
device with a small knife.

   Rocertus' father, the elderly Aquintus, recognised this 
unhealthy interest in things mechanical in his son, and 
apprenticed him to an artisan as soon as the boy was old 
enough. He hoped that the boy might become a master craftsman, 
and was well-pleased with his progress. However, it soon became 
apparent that whilst Rocertus was gifted with an understanding 
of mechanical apparatus, he lacked the ambition necessary to 
make his way to the top of the Guild. 

  Today, Rocertus studies mechanical devices from as far afield 
as merchants travel. He has little to talk about outside of his 
field, and so is seen as a quiet, reserved man by the general 
populace. However, when he gets talking about his favourite 
topics he will become quite animated, gesturing rapidly as he 
explains concepts, and barking out laughter at jokes only a 
fellow artisan would understand. Attempts to talk about other 
topics will be meet with a distant stare and one word answers. 
Common humour will perplex him. It is not that Rocertus is shy; 
on the contrary, he is confident in his position in society, it 
is just that he is not interested in anything outside his 
speciality.

   In appearance, Rocertus is a man of average height, with 
short, light brown hair. He is paunchy from too many days spent 
within a confined workshop, and is quite lazy, preferring to 
send apprentices on errands, rather then leave his rooms. He 
dresses in serviceable, dull clothes, and will typically be 
wearing dirty leather overalls, with many pockets full of 
springs, clips and tumblers.

   Rocertus will be able to repair most mechanical devices, 
though he will only do so if they interest him - he has better 
things to do with his time then pick locks. He will also create 
devices on order, though again, only if they are complex or 
interesting. He typically has many projects on at once, and 
quickly bores of them once he has solved a particular problem. 
However, he is smart enough to realise who pays the bills, and 
always completes a job on time.

   Rocertus rarely trains apprentices. He is eager to share his 
knowledge with those who show interest, but cannot relate to 
the general concerns of students. He also tends to develop a 
disdain towards those who show less dedication then himself. 
Apprentices who show a lot of interest may study under him for 
a while (especially if they bring interesting new devices with 
them), but will typically leave Rocertus for a more practical 
master.

   A few examples of devices that Rocertus will be interested 
in (assuming your campaign has the level of technology) are: 
Locks, clocks, trigger mechanisms, finger-traps (watch the 
Addam's Family!), astrolabes, mechanical manikins, magnifying 
glasses and mechanical puzzles.

  Adventure hooks: The PCs may meet Rocertus whilst looking for 
someone to open some intricately locked and trapped ancient box 
(and who knows what you will find inside old treasure chests). 
Alternatively, one of the older Voodersteen's could meet 
'something' out in the wilderness, and come home a rather 
changed character. Rocertus in not completely cut-off from his 
family, and may find himself drawn into the resulting chaos...


Warhammer Specific:

The statistics for Rocertus are:

Base Statistics:
M 3      WS  31    Ld  31
S 3      BS  31    Int 35
T 4      Dex 35    Cl  26
W 7                WP  30
I 32               Fel 32
A 1

Advances: Rocertus still has a +1 to T and +1 to W left in his 
advance scheme.

Current Statistics:
M 3     WS  31    Ld  41
S 4     BS  31    Int 35
T 4     Dex 55    Cl  46
W 8               WP  40
I 52              Fel 42
A 1

Appearance: 5'8", Light brown hair, Paunchy 

Family: Aquintas Voodersteen is the head of the venerable 
Voodersteen family of merchants. The Voodersteens are based in 
Nuln and trade mainly in curiosities and exotic items brought 
from the distant reaches of the Old World, along with the odd 
item from far-off Lustria. If you want an exotic animal or a 
rare Arabian Jezail talk to the Voodersteens, but be prepared 
to pay for it. The Voodersteens are rich, but not in the same 
league as, for example, the Oldenhallers.

Work: Rocertus runs his own business and also teaches at the 
Universitae Royale in Nuln. His current great interest is 
astronomy, and he is trying to construct a giant mechanical 
planetarium to track all visible stars.  

Age: 34 

Careers: Artisan's apprentice - Artisan 

Skills: Drive Cart, Cryptography, Etiquette, Sixth Sense, 
Magical Sense, Secret Language - Guilder, Secret Signs - 
Artisan, Astronomy, Metallurgy, Smithing.

Trappings: Intricate tools, leather overalls, 25GC's, a handful 
of cogs, gears and screws.

Note: Warhammer and all associated material is copyright of 
Games Workshop. I hope you found this article interesting. Happy gaming :)!
