From: Frederic Barnabe <Frederic.Barnabe@scinfo.u-nancy.fr>
Date: Wed, 7 Feb 1996 11:28:21 +0100 (MET)

SKRILK THE SKAVEN WHO PRAY TAAL

by F.BARNABE
Translated from french to english by P.LEONARD

NAME : SKRILK

RACE : SKAVEN ( CLAN ESHIN )
SEX : MALE
CARREERS : Sewer runner / ASSASSIN

                    M  WS  BS  S  T  W   I  A  Dex  Ld  Int  Cl  WP  Fel MP

Starting Profile    5  33  25  3  3  7  40  1   24  24   24  18  29   14  5 

Advance scheme     +30 +30 +1    +4 +30 +3  +30 +20  +20 +20 +20        

Actual Profile     2*  53  35  4  3  9  60  2  24*  34   34  28  39   14  5


Skills :
        Rural concealment
        Urban     "      
        Disguise
        Move silently Rural
                "     Urban
        Scale Sheer surface
        Follow trail
        Specialist weapons - Shurikan
        dodge blow
        Night Vision (30 m)
        Martial Art from the Eshin Clan
                (same as Street fighting)


Trappings :
        Grapnel, Rope 10 m
        Hooded Gray Capen
        False Beard
        Boot ( -3 M)
        Gloves (-20 Dex) 
        2 oozing Blades  ( +10 I, -1 D, -10 Prd , Cut through
armours, poisoned)        
        6 poisonned shurikens
        Leather shirt ( 0/1 Tronc)


SKRILK story told by SKRILK (for the player):

        " I'm SKRILK. I am about 1m50 high, i wear a gray hooded cloak which
permantly hide my face. A long white beard just ticks out of it. My boots
hurt. My feet are not made to wear them. My hands are hidden by black leather
gloves. I am not skilfull wearing them
        I slagger along the streets hearing laughs and mockeries of young
children. they take for an old humped dwarf and jeer of my stench One of
them, for sure one of the bravest pick a stone and throw it at me. If they
knew... If they knew how i really look like,... If they knew what's hidden
underneath the cloak and the false beard, they would flee, running away to
their father which would cut me in pieces with their axes.
        I am a skaven, A awfull ratman, a degenrated child of the Horned Rat,
A  coarse parody of a man. One day, someone will notice and bring me death.
Nevermind, my life is not worth a lot. It has only been suffering from birth.
        Eleven years ago, a female of the Eshin Clan gave me birth among
thirtenn other rats. My first feeling was blind teeth bites from one of my
brother. The struggle began. Only six of us survived, the weakest eaten by
the strongest
        The Eshin Clan Headquarter was settled in a country human calls
Cathay. It was there the Clan expatriated, centuries ago going away from the
council of the Thirteen and from other Clans. Cathay's men told us the art of
killing. They regretted it soon after when the first skaven blades cut
throuogh their bodies.
        All Eshin's skavens learn these skills: Art of Concealment; Art
Acrobacy And the countless way to kill. The novices are called the sewer
runner. If they survive long enough through testings and through the blades
of their own brother they they may become one day Assassin.
        I survived by murders during 11 years. Skaven Lifetime is about 20
but few dies from being aged. Each blade I stuck hurt me deep inside. I can't
bear anymore the hunger i feel after each fight, This insane hunger that
pushes any skaven to throw himself on his victim and devour it.
        Skaven religion teach us the Horned rat our God our Father created us
from an old city he took back from the Human and the Dwarves. That city now
called SkavenBlight is the capital of the ratkind ruled by the Council of the
Thirteen made of 12 Lords of the Ruins, The Horned rat being being The
symbolic 13th one.
        Skaven politic is only but plots and corruptions to overthrow one's
clan or another or to become a Lord. When coming to SkavenBlight, I
understood my clan was not different of the others. They evolve selling
themselves to the most offering one, Killing in the silence of the  night
their opponents.
        The most important thing ratkind has ever searched is Warpstone. Each
and every weapon, object we produce is filled with. The Gray seers search the
world to find it. Each clan use it then in his own way. The Moulder clan set
out powerfull monsters they train, this from exposing living creature to
warpstone. The techno-mages of the Skyre clan use it for their inventions.
The Plague Monks of the Pestilens clan use it to spread plagues. And we from
the Eshin clan, use it to produce our weapons, our oozing blades. One scratch
and the poison spread at full in the victim's body bringing awful pains.
Warpstone bring awfull mutations, only the Gray seers seems to be immune.
        I know now the religion is wrong. Skaven is not an evolution from the
rat but a human degenaration due the Warpstone. I behaved as a rat during 11
years. I killed man and skavens for the Glory of SkavenBlight and for the
plots of the Lords of The Ruins.
        One day i refused. The weight of the life i took and the hearts i
brake became too heavy. My ordeal was expeditious : Traitor and heretic, I
deserve death. My Assassin'skills allowed me to avoid the blades thrown at
me. I fled. The horde of Assassins of the council of the Thirteen were just
amateurs. My dagger touch them first.
        I wrote this note for the one who will kill me hoping he can
translate it and understand that the one he judged and killed for the crimes
of his race, respects and thanks him to have brought an end at his life full
of pains.
        Now I'm here on the road, hidding my identity, traced by my fellows
and  rejected by all in the name of my race. I am in the
search of something I never had the chance nor the right to have, Friends,
and for what's have been taken from me centuries ago, my humanity. "


FOR THE GM :

	It seems like Skavens are most an evolution of rats than degeneration of
men. But the player should trust this true. Well, in my campaign, the player
travel to Kislev to encounter Sulring Durgul, the master of the others (since
we play, Something Rotten in Kislev). With the fire of Zuvassin, he want to
erase Chaos of him and wannt to become again a human.
	But at least, it's just a little burnt rat who escape the fire.

	If you want to play more with him, Durgul can transfer him to a new
body. Let others players bring back a living one.


