Date: Fri, 27 Oct 1995 13:00:24 -0500 (CDT)
From: Neil Young <nyoung@krypton.mankato.msus.edu>
Subject: WFRP: Land Transportation Rules

Although cross country travel is as important in my campaigns as river
travel,it didn't receive much attention by the WFRP authors. The rules
included with TEW & WFRP are somewhat incomplete and contradictary IMHO. 
I hope that these rules, along with sug gestions from the WFRP mailing
group, can clear up a few of these problems. I wrote these rules awhile
back and they are still pretty rough. I decided that I d post them as is,
and I hope to improve them with ideas from the list. 

I have included thoughts, explanations, and ideas in {}s.  These can
easily be removed and still keep the rules complete.  Send any idea,
criticism, suggestion, hatred of the author, etc. to
nyoung@krypton.mankato.msus.edu or just post them to the WFRP m ailing
list. 

LAND TRANSPORTATION

Version 1.1

by Neil Young
                                     
In the Empire and in Brettonia boat traffic on the intricate web of rivers
and canals makes moving goods and people easy and inexpensive (river
travel rules are explained extensively in River Life of the Empire, a
suppliment to DotR).  Even with their ext ensive river systems, all of the
countries of the Old World maintain roads connecting cities and towns. 
Villiages that do not have river access rely exclusively on these roads
for transportation.  In counties that do not have extensive river systems,
suc h as Estalia, the Border Princes, and parts of Kislev, overland travel
is their primary means of transportation.  In most countries of the Old
World, but especially in the Empire, shipping people by coach is a
lucrative, cutthroat business. 

Descriptions

A coach is a four-wheeled, horse-drawn carriage, used to carry passengers. 
The undercarriage of a coach has a pair of solid wooden axles, the front
one able to swivel, connected rigidly with a wooden beam or iron bar.  A
wooden framed body hangs by leath er springs attached to upright posts
fixed to the axles.  The body design for a coach includes wooden or cloth
side panels, side doors, front and rear seats inside, and a roof that
forms part of the body.  An elevated seat for the driver attaches to the
front.  The coach, by far the most expensive wheeled vehicle, incorporates
advanced features into its design.  Coaches use radial spoked wheels to
reduce weight and increase wheel strength, and bearings to allow the
wheels to spin smoothly around the fixed axle.  Coaches are always
produced by experienced cartwrights.  (Note: the coach of the Old World
would not have been nearly as smooth and durable as a stagecoach of the
Old West.  The 'modern' coach could not have been built until the 19th
century when the development of the elliptic allowed the axles to move
independently - the original form of independent suspension.)

A wagon is a four-wheeled horse or ox drawn vehicle used for transporting
heavy loads.  Fundamental features of wagon design include a heavy frame,
a high walled, long, rectangular body with a driver's seat connected to
the top of the front edge.  There a re two basic types of wagons: 

The first, the farm wagon, is built primarily for hauling produce from the
farm to market.  This type of wagon is rather cheap to procure, and has
been modified in every conceivable way.  Many have been built with wooden
sidesand roofs on the wagon to st ore tools or as living quarters, with
cages for prisoners, etc.  They are usually built by the owner or a
carpenter who is not trained as a cartwright.  Without advanced design
features, the viehicle becomes fragile and slow and is dangerous at faster
s peeds. 

The second kind of wagon is the much more expensive freight wagon,
produced by merchants for overland goods transportation.  These are a
necessity for Old World cities with poor river access, such as Middenheim. 
Cartwrights construct the freight wagon f or strength, speed, and, by
lengthening the box, larger loads.  The longer length of the freight wagon
restricts its ability to travel on the narrow winding streets of Old World
cities, thus, teamsters build their warehouses near the edge of a city by
a g ate, or along a wide thoroughfare.  Only a cartwright can produce a
freight wagon and will always include advanced design features. 

A cart is a square box with tall sides balanced on top of two wheels,
using the draft animal for support in the front.  The cart is usually used
to carry lightweight material with bulk such as hay or turnips.  It is a
"no frills" cost-effective goods haul er usually thrown together by
unskilled carpenters, lacking bearings and spokes.  {Another version of
the cart is the chariot.  I have seen references in White Dwarf to
charriots being used by Orc chiefs, but I haven t really heard of them
being used by much of anyone else.  Any thoughts or suggestions?}

Vehicle Encumbrance

A land vehicle s encumbrance capacity is determined by a number of
factors: what type of animal is pulling the vehicle, how many animals are
pulling the vehicle, what type of terrain the vehicle is crossing, and how
much the actual vehicle can hold. How m uch the vehicle can carry is
determind thusly: 

Total Vehicle Enc = Animal Strength x # of Animals x Terrain Modifier -
Weight of Vehicle

A vehicle can only be loaded to its capacity despite how much the team can
pull. 

For every 100 points times the number of animals in the team, or parts
thereof, which the load is above the team's maximum encumbrance, it loses
one from its movement allowance.  For example, a team of 4 animals can
pull up to 400 enc. above their limit and still only have their movement
allowance reduced by 1. 

By these rules a coach with four draft horses can carry about twelve
'typical' lightly encumbered humans (I used the standard human from the
bestiary with S2 & T2).  A coach carrying a load of experienced adventures
with armor can carry considerably fewe r.  Of course figuring out the
total encumbrance for all the passengers in a coach or the cargo on a
wagon is unnecessary unless outrageous is attempted. 

Vehicle Movement

Although coaches and freight wagons have M6 and carts and farm wagons have
M4, the vehicle cannot go faster than the Running Rate of the slowest
animal on team

Vehicles moving faster than Standard Rate are subject to subject to
breakdown.  First, the team is subject to the speed reduction described in
Run Rate under the Moving section of WFRP pg. 73.  {I have no clue how
long it takes someone to recover before t hey can run again . . .  The
rule doesn't really say.} The vehicle also has a chance of breakdown as
listed below. 

Every minute that a coach or a freight wagon moves above its normal move
rate there is a 2% chance the vehicle will become damaged by the condition
of the road.  If a vehicle is damaged, consult the Vehicle Breakdown Chart
to determine what has gone wrong.

Farm wagons and carts traveling above standard movement are at greater
risk of being damaged.  There is a 5% cumulative chance of breakdown every
minute traveled at speeds greater than Standard Rate.  So in the first
minute there is a 5% chance, the seco nd a 10% chance, and so on.  For
every minute a character with carpentry skill spends doing preventive
maintenance (i.e., pounding in nails, tightening straps, etc.) on the
vehicle, the chance of breakdown is reduced by 1%.  A cartwright doing the
same ta sk reduces the chane of breakdown by 5% every minute.  If a
vehicle is damaged, consult the Vehicle Breakdown Chart to determine what
has gone wrong. 

Vehicles can travel on roads, tracks, or reasonably smooth unobstructed
ground (i.e., plains and rolling hills).  Vehicles cannot under any
circumstances go through thick forest, mountains, or marshland, although
man made trails and roads through any of t hese are traversable. 

During the winter months, when there is snow on the ground or during wet
weather when the ground becomes a muddy bog, traveling overland and on
tracks becomes much more difficult.  When the ground is soggy, such as
during heavy rain, the day after a rainy day, or during the spring thaw
there is a 10% chance that a vehicle will get stuck in the mud every hour. 
This chance is modified by the following: 

RAIN MODIFIERS

+20 if the vehicle is traveling on a dirt track or overland on loose
    ground (i.e., a plowed field)
+10 if the vehicle is traveling on an unpaved road or overland on grass
+10 for every consecutive day of rain
+5 for every 1,000 enc. above 8,000
-5 for every 300 enc. of load that the team is pulling beyond the wagons
   encumberance
-10 if the vehicle is traveling on a paved road in poor condition
-30 if the vehicle is traveling on a paved road in good condition

SNOW MODIFIERS

+10 to +50 for every consecutive day of snow, depending on the amount of
           snow received

+5         for every 1,000 enc. above 8000

-5         for every 300 enc. of load the team is pulling beyond the wagons
           encumberance

-20         if the vehicle is traveling on a well used stretch of road

To get a vehicle out of a bog or snow bank, either the load must be
lightened, or more pulling/pushing power must be added.  When the change
due to reduction in weight or addition of extra pushing power is equal to
the amount the test originally failed by , the vehicle is unstuck. 
Immediately, when the vehicle is unstuck, make another test.  If this test
is failed, start the whole process all over.  Success means that the
vehicle can travel another hour before being tested again. Notice that a
reduction o f 1,000 enc. of weight will not only remove +5 from a heavy
vehicle's modifier, but will also give +15 points because of the excess
pulling power.  Coaches are easy to free from bogs, as the main load, the
passengers, can be removed easily and can even be used to push in a pinch
(although they usually aren't very happy about it). 

Although a vehicle traveling overland has less of a chance of getting
stuck as those traveling on a dirt track, they have an even greater
problem.  Vehicles traveling overland are prone to hitting objects, such
as rocks, logs, and holes, which can be hidd en even in short grass from
someone in the driver's seat.  Every half-hour of overland travel, the
vehicle must make a risk test to determine if it has collided with such an
object.  If a someone walks out ahead of the vehicle, spotting for
obstacles the test is avoided if he makes a successful observe test, but
the vehicle can move no faster than the cautious movement of the observer. 
If the risk test is failed, the vehicle has had a collision.  Whether the
vehicle is damaged or not depends on it's spee d.  If the vehicle was
moving at cautions speed, there is a 5% chance it has had a collision. 
Roll on the vehicle damage chart, modifying your roll by -60.  If the
vehicle was moving at normal speed, there is a 10% chance it has had a
collision.  Roll on the vehicle damage chart, modifying your roll by -40. 
If the vehicle was moving at running speed, there is a 20% chance it has
had a collision and roll on the vehicle damage chart, modifying your roll
by -10. 

Team Size

A farm wagon has a team of two or four oxen or draft horses.  Freight
wagons, on the other hand, are designed for a team of six draft horses. 
One or two draft horses or oxen pull carts.  A coach usually has a team of
four draft horses.  For heavier wheel ed loads, such as catapults,
cannons, or other siege machines, or for dragging large objects, harnesses
designed for more animals can be produced.  Horses and oxen cannot, under
any circumstances, be used together on the same team. 

{I assume there would also have been sleds and sleighs around, although I
don't think the Empire, or most of the Old World, for that matter, gets
enough snow to make the expense of buying the extra equipment necessary,
but, sleds and sleighs would have be en an important means of travel in
Norsca and Kislev in the winter.  Right off the top of my head I think
that a horse drawn sleigh could carry about as much as a cart, all rules
apply except wheel damage would affect the runners instead, and their
would be no limit on the speed due to inferior design.  Dogs on a dog sled
team could pull about 300? x their strength each, and I have no idea of
the capacity or the weight of the dog sled.}

Beasts of Burden

{The movements shown for the horses on this table is taken directly from
the Movement Allowance for Other Transport chart on pg. 74 of the WFRP
rulebook with the exception of the pony.  I have enhanced the pony in both
strength and movement in the interes t of giving Dwarves a reasonable
alternative to a horse which sould be very difficult for them to mount and
use without assistance.  WFRP defines a character s body encumbrance as
his S + T x 100 making the average Dwarf PC slightly heavier than the aver
age Human PC.  Thus I thought it unfair to give them a mount of inferior
strength.  The pony listed here is sort of the Dwarf of the horse world.}

The horses described here use the horse description and rules included in
the WFRP Bestiary with the addition of the following special rules: 

Animals harnessed in a team are unable to use their attacks.  Mules and
donkeys {and I suppose llamas if you are in Lustria} are able to cross all
terrain except that which requires ropes and other climbing gear to cross. 

BEASTS OF BURDEN

                      M WS BS  S  T  W   I  A Dex Ld Int  Cl  WP Fel
Warhorse (Destrier)   8 33  -  5   3 11 30  1  -  10  14  30  30  -
Light Warhorse        8 33  -  4  3  8  30  1  -  10  12  20  20  -
Riding Horse          8 33  -  3  3  5  30  0  -  10  10  10  10  -
Draft Horse           6 33  -  4  3  6  30  0  -  10   8   8   8  -
Mule/Donkey           6 33  -  2  3  5  30  0  -  10   8  10  10  -
Pony                  7 33  -  3  3  4  30  0  -  10  10  10  10  -
Ox                    5 33  -  5  4 10  30 1*  -   6   6   6   6  -

*An ox has a horn attack that it uses to defend itself when attacked.

VEHICLE CHART

Name           M   T   W  Capacity Encum
Cart           4   4  10    5,000  1,000
Farm Wagon     4   4  20    9,000  2,000
Freight Wagon  6   5  20   13,000  1,800
Coach          6   5  30   10,000  2,500
  

UPDATED TRANSPORTATION PRICES

Name             Price (GCs)     Avail
Coach               1000          Rare
Freight Wagon        750          Rare
Farm Wagon     (1d8 x 10) + 60   Common
Cart           (1d6 x 10) + 40   Common
Destrier           960-4750       Rare
Light Warhorse     575-1150      Scarce
Riding Horse        40-480       Common
Draft Horse    (1d6 x 10) + 30  Plentiful
Pony              5d8 x 10       Common
Mule/Donkey    (1d8 x 10) + 20  Plentiful
Ox             (1d4 x 10) + 30  Plentiful

VEHICLE BREAKDOWNS

Give coaches and freight wagons rolling for a breakdown a -10 modifier due
to their superior construction.  Any roll less than zero indicates that
the vehicle was jarred, but can continue to travel with no appreciable
damage. 

  Speed Damage  Rough Damage  Wagon/Coach  Cart
      01-35         01-50       Wheel      Wheel
      36-60                     Brake      Wheel
      61-75         60-75       Axle       Axle
      76-00         76-00       Harness    Harness

Wheel - indicates the one of the vehicle's wheel has come loose and rolled
off , randomly determine which wheel, with an equal chance of each. When a
cart wheel or the front wheel on a coach or wagon is thrown there is a 5%
chance the vehicle will overtur n.  There is a 10% chance that any thrown
wheel will be broken beyond repair because of snapped spokes, a broken
hub, or it just literally fell apart.  If the wheel is not destroyed it
can be put back on by anyone in 20 minutes, if they make an Int test. The
test can be retried if failed, but it will take another 20 minutes.  If
multiple people are working on getting the wheel on (maximum 4), they can
all roll to see if they accomplish it, but only one of them will have to
make a successful Int test to a ccomplish the task.  Cartwrights or
apprentice cartwrights can put a wheel back on in 10 minutes with no
chance of failure. 

Brake - indicates the hand brake has broken.  On level ground the brake
only goes out while it is being used, such as around corners at high
speed, or when it needs to stop quickly.  The vehicle can continue on
level ground at normal speed with a broken b rake without little danger
involved.  On mountain trails vehicle has a 75% chance of overpowering the
horses and overturning when the break is broken.  A vehicle cannot travel
on these trails without haveing the brake fixed.  It will take a character
wit h carpentry skill and the proper tools 10 minutes to replace the
brake.  Coaches traveling mountain routes {I don't even know if they
exist} will always have spare breaks onboard. 

Axle - indicates the axle of the vehicle has snapped in half, randomly
determine which axle, with an equal chance of each.  A broken cart axle or
a broken front axle will cause a vehicle to overturn 20% of the time.  A
broken axle can only be repaired by a cartwright with a full set of tools
and replacement parts available. 

Harness - indicates that something in the connection between the animals
harness and the vehicle has broken. The team runs off, and the vehicle
goes careening off out of control with an 80% chance of overturning.  When
this happens the character holding t he reigns has to make an Initiative
test + 20 to let go or be pulled off the vehicle and drug by the animals a
short ways (1xS3 hits).  Finding a runaway team will probably take some
time.  The harness can only be fixed by a leather worker {who does leath
er work in the Old World?  I couldn't find any applicable skills to
manufacturing or repairing leather goods}, or be replaced, but, it can be
temporarily patched with rope and basic tools in 15 minutes.  A vehicle
with a patched harness can move no faster than cautions speed without
causing the harness to break again.  Even at slow speeds there is a 20%
chance the harness will break again every hour it is driven. 

Rolling Over

When a coach overturns, any character inside takes 1 x S3 hit.  Characters
on top of a coach, in the bed of a wagon, or in a driver's seat while they
roll, must make an Initiative test to leap off, otherwise they also take 1
x S2 hit.  It takes a total St rength of 12 to right a coach, a total
Strength of 10 to right a wagon, and a total Strength of 6 to right a
cart. There is a 50% chance that any vehicle that rolls will be damaged
beyond repair by anyone but a cartwright with the proper tools. 


Neil Young
(nyoung@krypton.mankato.msus.edu)


