From: Ian Ward <ACA95IDW@sheffield.ac.uk>
Subject: [WFRP:1590] Arianka!

*ARIANKA - Goddess of Law and Discipline

*Description:
 Arianka, sister of Solkan and Alluminas and consort of Solkan, is 
the embodiment of law and discipline.  In the distant past, Tzeentch, 
changer of the ways, saw Arianka as a great threat to his plans and 
imprisoned her in a crystal coffin which can be opened only by a set 
of keys, hidden somewhere in the world but whose whereabouts are 
unknown.  Many Old Worlders believe Arianka is nothing more than 
legend.

 One legend tells of how Arianka forged Laihtendrung, her crystal 
sword, out of a special magical crystal that shone with a soft inner 
light.  The tale claims the substance, called Laihtero crystal, was 
created as a reaction to the existence of the solidified chaos known 
as Warpstone, and that its' properties are such that it produces an 
aura of stasis around it, that nothing changes as long as the 
crystals' soft light is shining on it.  No such crystals have ever 
been found, however, and the tales are largely believed to be nothing 
more than that.

 It is also said that Ariankas' legendary coffin is made of Laihtero 
crystal, locking her in the stasis field thus generated around her.  
The legend surrounding her does not make clear how her captor trapped 
her thus, but the coffin is said to lie in Praag, Kislev.  Ariankas' 
followers are dedicated to the search for the keys which will free 
her from her imprisonment.

*Special Note:
 Being as Arianka is imprisoned, she is unique amoung the warhammer 
gods in that opinions differ over whether (and how) her cult persists 
today.  This description cannot cater for all these views and makes 
no attempt to do so.
 Also, a quest for Ariankas' keys is a good campaign hook, so I'm 
leaving out details like the number of keys, etc. as GMs can then 
decide on them as fits their campaign.  This description assumes the 
character worships Arianka alone (as opposed to being in some joint 
Arianka/Solkan sub-cult) and is meant as a sort of generic template 
to put the scalpel to as you see fit.  My personal view on Arianka is 
in a section at the end.

*Alignment:
 Lawful.

*Symbol:
 Ariankas' symbol is her crystal sword, Laihtendrung, with which she 
is said  to dispense her punishment.  Cultists believe that on the 
day of her release she will take up Laihtendrung and join Solkan in 
taking revenge upon the chaos god who imprisoned her.

*Area of Worship:
 Members of the cult come from all over the Old World, but are few in 
number, and tend to come from the south of the Old World.  Local 
cults in a particular area generally get together with others on 
Ariankas' holy days to meet in prayer and discuss any leads found in 
the search.

*Temples:
 All Ariankas' old temples have long since crumbled to ruins.  Few 
cultists are willing to give up the quest for the keys to oversee the 
rebuilding of the temples, and, where a cultist has been willing to 
do so, the new temples have reportedly collapsed on placing the last 
brick/stone.  Services are usually held in shrines set up in cultists 
homes or property bought by the cult for the purpose.

*Friend and Enemies:
 The cult is contempible towards the majority of Old World religion, 
because its' weak stance against chaos, but Ranald in particular is 
an enemy for his constant belittling of authority.  Not surprisingly, 
The cult is vehemently hostile to the chaos gods.  Relations are 
friendly with the other gods of law.

*Holy Days:
 Holy days are the first and last day of each month and since her 
imprisonment, the day believed to be the anniversary of her 
imprisonment is also held holy.

*Cult Requirements:
 New cultists must never have broken the law, except where allowed by 
Ariankas' scriptures.

*Strictures:
 - Oppose chaos and its' minions whenever they are encountered.
 - Oppose weak and foolish laws which make a mockery of law and 
dicipline.
 - Never let a crime go unpunished.
 - Obey and enforce the letter of the law unless this would break any  
of the above strictures.
 - Never pardon others who question or disobey an order from a 
superior, or do so yourself, unless to obey would break any of the 
above strictures.

*Spell Use:
 Before imprisonment, Arianka granted all petty and battle magic 
spells.  Being currently imprisoned, however, Arianka has no power to 
grant magical aid to clerics.

*Skills:
 Initiates of Arianka must buy the Law skill, at normal EP cost, 
before advancing to level one cleric.

*Trials:
 Trials to Arianka are never set, as the quest for the crystal keys 
and coffin is considered too important.  When a trial is indicated, 
the character must accumulate another 100 EP and try again.  Were 
Arianka not imprisoned, a typical test might be to thwart a group of 
criminals that were currently evading the authorities.

*Blessings:
 Arianka favours tests based on Ld, Cool and WP, especially Loyalty, 
resistance to bribes, etc., although she has no power to grant 
blessings (or curses) while she is imprisoned.

*Personal View (long):
 I see the cult of Arianka as being alive and well.  When Tzeentch 
defeated her, he imprisoned her in a Laihtero crystal coffin which 
does indeed lie in Praag, Kislev.  The nine keys (also made of 
Laihtero, as is Laihtendrung) are hidden somewhere in the world, but 
noone knows where - they change location randomly at the whim of 
Tzeentch.  Her cult collapsed on her imprisonment, but some remnants 
survived.
 Many cultists were disspirited and never quite recovered.  Some were 
totally absorbed in the cult of Solkan (who took up the torch of 
discipline when she was imprisoned), while some were partially merged 
in the cult of Solkan and persist as a sub-cult worshipping both gods 
(they are subject to both sets of cult requirements and have to 
follow both sets of strictures, holy days, etc. but receive magic and 
blessings from Solkan for their dedication).
 Others still remained loyal to Arianka alone and this sub-cult of 
hers also persists today.  This sub-cult is itself composed to two 
groups.  The first group knows of the true location of her coffin and 
go to great lengths to ensure that the world at large does not find 
out, a few members of the joint sub-cult with Solkan are also trusted 
with this sensitive information.  The other group is generally not 
trusted enough to be told and will be told only in times when there 
is no other choice.  Arianka also has an order of knights templar, 
the Knights of the Holy Quest.
 Not only is her cult alive and well, but so too is Arianka herself.  
She is alive and semi-conscious in her coffin, and considerably 
weakened in her godly powers by the stasis field.  She does, however, 
have limited control over the crystal (although exercising it costs 
her dearly in strength).  She thus has the power to grant magical 
spells and effects to cultists within D8-6 yards of the coffin 
(reroll every round, minimum of zero) and can grant blessings within 
the same range, although these too end when the subject leaves the 
range of Ariankas' influence.  Laihtendrung lies beside her in the 
coffin.


  TTFN.  Ian Ward 
  aca95idw@sheffield.ac.uk
  ---------------------------------------------
  "That which we do not bring to consciousness, 
   appears in our lives as fate."  (C.C.Jung)
