From: "G.G.Lepper" <ZZA95GGL@sheffield.ac.uk>
To: wfrp@gojira.monsta.com
Subject: WFRP: More Gnome Stuff

  To make a more complete pantheon, and to add a great dimension to 
the Gnome culture, there are new Gnome gods, Randandill, and 
Gandargil.
  They all reflect a perspective of Gnomic life.  Gandargil is the 
gnomish aspect of the pedlar, the young gnome out for adventure, 
youth, and a naive sense of crass humor and pranks.
  Ringil, the chief, and older brother of the other two Gnome gods, 
represents the accomplishment of Gnomes, craftsmanship, a keen sense 
of humor, and the community.  Ringil assumes the center role in all 
the stories, tales, and myths of the god, while his brothers take 
peripheral roles, an allegory of the importance and value of 
commitment to your work and community, tempered by a keen eye and 
sense of humor.
  The last, Randandill, represents the darkest element of Gnome 
psychology, isolation, a total immersion in illusions and reality, 
and world weary cynicism.

  Gandargil-
Description-  A young mischievous Gnome, with a fishing rod or a 
pedlars bag, with a widely long and curving moustache.  Many young 
gnomes who haven't settled in to an apprenticeship, or wander about 
are called "gandlings".  Gandargil represents youth, wandering, 
adventure, and entrepeurship.
Alignment- Neutral
Symbol- The only symbol is the Gnome rune for Gandargil, that 
strongly resembles the rune for "youth" in Gnomic culture.
Area of Worship-  A small following amongst Gnome thieves and 
pedlars, and worshiped amonst the traveling troupes of Gnomes in 
their wagons.
Temples-  None.  Each temple of Ringil has two smaller alcoves for 
Ringils brothers.
Friend and Enemies-  Same as Ringil
Holy Days- Same as Ringil
Cult Requirements-  No real cult for followers.  Gandargil is merely 
payed homage, no Clerics exist for this deity.
Strictures- No standing strictures-just references to having a good 
time, with the assumption of a gradual return to the community.
Spell Use- None.  
Skills-  None.
Trials- None
Blessings-  At times, Gnomes acknowledging this Gnome god have been 
know to receive blessings in their actions.  The degree of this is up 
to the PC to decide how influential this deity is.  In my campaign, 
this deity is almost powerless, but often tries to show favors to 
it's followers, so when the player needs a break, I make it seem like 
the deity has helped the poor fool out.


