From: Gregory Jay Scott <scott3@america.net>
Subject: [WFRP:1028] Re: Mages

Morr, God of Sleep
==================

It says in the basic rule book that no religions are known to worship 
Morr in his aspect as the god of sleep. I have begun to create such an 
order of clerics and am perfectly willing to team up with anyone who has 
be working in this direction.
My idea with their inception is that Morr wanted a nonlethal branch of 
clerics that could still kick choatic butt. Also he desided that terror 
should not be a weapon denied the forces of law.

The concept so far is this:
	-They do not NEED as much sleep as others (-.5 hour per careers in 
the order including the current one) but at the entry level they gain the
 ablitity to fall asleep at will and for them sleep is considered an act 
of worship. They must gain this skill before taking and attribute bonuses 
for the entry level cleric career and must have it to advance to level 
one cleric. If they do not sleep for a number of hours equal to the 
current cleric career (again include Initiate) longer than a normal 
member of their race does they are considered to have broken a minor stricture.
This would be excused off hand by Morr if they were skipping sleep to 
further his cause significantly in a matter that required that their
attention to it not be spread over several days. Note that they are NOT 
required to actively seek out undead to kill (although they should pass 
on any info ASAP to the main branch of the priests of Morr

Spells Use: Steal mind, all petty magic , Cause stupidity , demonic 
binding protection and dispelling magic 2 careers back from their current 
career, all first level illusion magic , all second level illusion magic 
except buildings and woods, all third level magic except Vanish, Destroy 
illusions (4th level ), Illusion of darkness.all fourth level illusion 
spells except army and teleport.

Several special spells:

Releave exhaustion
------------------
Spell Level: 1
Magic Points: 1 per hour of sleep relived from target
Range: touch
Duration: instant
ingredients: small cushion 
Saving throw: N/A

Effect is like one hour of sleep by target for each magic point spent. 
This mostly relives mental fatigue and will not relive any physical 
effect that would be helped merely by resting in a physically relaxing 
way while maintaining a moderate level of mental activity( like holding a 
conversation).
In addition the caster now needs the amount of hours of sleep substituted
divided by his level the next time he sleeps. Treat this sleep like it 
was missed the last time the caster slept as far as its effects on the 
cleric go.

Modify sleep
------------
Spell level: 1
Magic points: 1 for every 2 targets
Range touch ( but the targets need not be touched at the same time. 
merely within 1 minute of each other.
Duration: until target wakes-up
Ingredients: An egg shell of any bird or reptile to lighten a feather to 
deepen
saving throw: the target(s) must be willing to allow the caster to cast a 
spell on them.

This can be cast in two modes. Either one will cause the in five minutes
target to go into a natural sleep and sleep as long as the person needs 
to unless awoken. In the deepen mode the target is considered to be in a 
very deep sleep bordering on coma for purposes of what will wake them up.
In lighten mode any touch greater than the weight of the egg used to cast 
the spell, or any sound louder than would be heard from the explosion of 
an equal volume of gunpowder to the egg used heard at a range of 3 yards 
will wake the target.


Wander dreams
-------------
Spell level: 2
Magic points: 1 per fifteen minutes of use.( # must be declared at casting?)
Range: .5 mile for each level of the caster. times 50 if seeking a 
previously targeted ally.
Duration: as long as both parties are asleep and spell points invested 
remain.
Ingredients: A small pillow and a pound of sand
Saving throw: A target that does not trust the caster may take a will 
power test. if successful the target wakes up and the caster goes into a 
coma for 2 twice the duration of the spell minus the time of the spell 
that was used up. This effect occurs any time the target wakes up whether 
friendly or unfriendly to the caster

the caster immediately goes to sleep. This will allow the caster to cause 
dreams in and then enter the dreams of any sleeping person within range. 
They can specifically chose the dreams of any person within 4 yards of 
their body or anyone whose dreams they have entered before. They can also 
choose to wait any amount of time in a sort of limbo ( the clock on the 
spell IS still ticking) or they can target the spell at a random target 
within range ( they can declare themselves to by using a lower level of 
proficiency than they possess if they with for range purposes). Once in a 
persons dreams they can speak to the person if the person knows and 
trusts them, any thing either party says will be remembered by both parties 
perfectly for 10 minutes after the person in question wakes up.
The caster may change targets, this takes 1 turn.

In the dreams of someone who is not trusting of the caster The caster may 
merely observe the dreams. He may turn the dreams to any subject he likes 
by making a number of will power rolls to determine the number look on 
page 67 of the rule book. the number of successful rolls in a row 
required is equal number of cost levels  the importance of the imformation 
the dream conserns expressed as a bribe attempt.  This subject will be 
dreamed about for 5 minutes. A failure causes the coma desribed earlier. 
Note Bene: these comas have no lasting effects. When discribing the dream 
to the player keep in mind the surrealistic nature of dreams, and the 
fact that their contents may not be truthful in the usual sense although 
they will almost always express the mood of the dreamer to the subject. 
However these induced dreams are d100-3+(d6 per casters level) percent 
truthful. Treat any result above 100 as a 100.

Their is more, basically they can boost the WP of an army while it sleeps 
and can attempt to cause major and multible insanities in opponents.
This long enough for the moment however.
