     GRUNGNI Dwarven God of Mining

     Description: Grungni is the principal deity of the Dwarven
pantheon. In Dwarven legend, he led the Dwarfs away from the
increasing perils of the upper world into the safety of the
earth, and became deified as the god of mining and underground
places. He is generally protrayed as a male Dwarf clad all in
chainmail, with a forked iron-grey beard reaching almost to his
feet. It is said that he can merge himself magically with any
object made of stone or metal.

     Alignement: Neutral.

     Organisation: The highest dignatary of the cult is the High
Priest of the Cult of Grungni, who always must live in the
fortress city of Karaz-a-Karak. All the eclesiastic structure is
under his authority. The High Priest is chosen from one of the
four highest leaders of the four main orders: the Order of the
Mountain (which highest leader is the Kraz of the Everlasting
Mountain), the order of the Stone (which highest leader is the
Kraz of the Stone), the Order of the Pick of Grungni (which
highest leader is the Kraz of the Mithril Pick) and the Order of
the Blackroot (which highest leader is the Kraz Goblinbane). At
the decease of the High Priest, the four highest leaders choose
among them one to be the successor, and the vacant of these four
is chosen by the new High Priest among the most outstanding
members of his order.

     The Order of the Mountain takes charge of managing all
matters concerning Dwarven mining and construction. They are the
priests in charge of choosing the places to be dug out or where
a fortress must be built, even as the highest leaders may not be
the responsibles to build them. The Order is divided in two
aspects: construction and mining. Under the authority of the Kraz
of the Everlasting Mountain are the Masters of the Mountain (or
of the Everlasting), who manage all matters about construction
in their respective areas, like the construction of a new temple
or some new catacombs. Under their authority are the Masters of
Security, that are responsible of constructing the structures
once approved, mainly as overseers. Under the authority of these
are the Bearers of the Pick of Grungni, who take care of other
lesser aspects of constructing, mainly to oversee the work as
well as maintenance. In the other side are under the authority
of the Kraz of the Everlasting Mountain the Masters of Gold, who
deal with the opening of new mines, or closing them if they are
no longer productive, as well as to oversee the work in them.
Under their authority are the Masters of Silver (of Gromril in
Zhufbar), who oversee directly the funcioning of the mines,
mainly as the highest dirigents. Under their authority are the
Bearers of the Pick of Grungni, too, who oversee the security of
the tunnels and who find the veins. The members of the Order of
the Mountain are the highest responsibles of the security of
their constructions and their maintenance.

     The Order of the Stone takes care mainly of the affairs
related to divine magic and elementalism. It is the responsible
of the manufacturing of divine artifacts and the instruction of
the priests in the ways of the magic. Under the authority of the
Kraz of the Stone are the Krazs of the Earth. They take care of
the matters of the order in their own areas, deciding teachers
and the rest of dirigents. They take care of the preservation of
the libraries and the search of lost knowledge. Under their
authority are the Masters of the Runes and the Keepers of
Secrets. The Masters of the Runes are the main responsibles to
preserve the knowledge of the Runes, and to elect the more
related candidates. Not always the Masters of the Runes are able
to manufacture them, because they may not be one of those chosen
who are very special in themselves, but they always choose the
new apprentices. The Keepers of Secrets take care of the
libraries and maintain them, as well as keeping the forbidden
tomes from anyone. Even as their use is forbidden, those books
about Chaos, necromancy or daemonology are kept as always have
valuable information if the need arises to fight against such
enemies. Due to the delicate situation of the priest, it is only
attainable with the reliance of the Krazs of the Earth, the Kraz
of the Stone and the High Priest (but many times only with the
Kraz of Stone). Under the authority of the Krazs of the Earth are
directly the Sons of the Stone, who take care of the chores
assigned by each Kraz of the Earth. They also instruct the novice
in the divine magic.

     The Order of the Pick of Grungni is in charge of the
administration matters of the order, and it is the most general
and broad branch of the cult (usually each member has belonged
to one of the other orders before). Their members act as public
relations officers and represent a little of every order. The
Kraz of Mithril is in charge of all temples, and under his
authority are the Masters of the Pick of Gold, that are in charge
of the management of their own temple or of those in his area.
Under their authority are the First-born of the Pick of Grungni,
who form the base of the order and are in charge of different
tasks, as the administration of lesser temples or shrines or to
serve Grungni in any way.

     The Order of the Blackroot is in charge of the destruction
of the Goblins and of the retreive of lost strongholds. It takes
care of the planning of military campaigns, even as they are not
usually the leaders of them. All its members are also formidable
warriors who have shown their courage finghting against Goblins.
Goblinbane is in charge of leading, coordinating and aproving the
more important actions, while the Causers of the Terror of the
Goblins are in charge of the matters in his area, trusting lesser
tasks to the Causers of the Fear of the Goblins, who are in
charge of defensive tasks or to lead and prepare troops. Under
their authority are the Avenging Sons, who are in charge of
taking vengeance on the enemies of Grungni with their divine
powers and deadly blows (in battle). Under the authority of
Goblinbane is the Order of Honor, which highest dignatary is Kraz
Chaosbane, who is in charge of exterminating those dishonourable
Dwarfs who have dedicated to the Chaos worship. Under his
authority are the Sons of the Blood of Grungni, who are in charge
of their own areas, helped by the Sons of the Fury, who execute
the orders of their superiors and participate actively in battle.

     Under the authority of all the orders are the Sons of
Grungni. They are servants of the Mining God that begin to be
gifted with the favour of the God and who start to dedicate their
lifes to Him. They carry out an enormous number of tasks, at the
will of the orders, and they start their advanced studies.

     The lowest layer, and the most numerous, are the Acolytes
of the Silver Pick, the initiates of the cult, who have not been
gifted with the favour of Grungni yet, but who offer their
dedication with the hope and will to serve Him.

     Symbol: The main symbol of Grungni is the pick, representing
the magical implement with which he opened up the underground
world to Dwarfkind. A stylised depiction of a helmeted face with
a long, forked beard is also sometimes used. The Sons of Grungni
and the Acolytes of the Silver Pick dress in light grey. Members
of the Order of the Blackroot and the Order of Honor dress in
black, as symbol of the death of their enemies. The rest of
orders dress in dark grey. The Order of the Blackroot and the
Order of Honor have as symbol the head with a helmet in silver.
The Order of the Pick of Grungni has a silver pick. The Order of
the Stone has a black pick, and the Order of the Mountain has a
silver pick with a wooden handle. To distinguish ranks a border
of different color is used. It is gold for the highest leader of
the order. For the Krazs of the Earth, Masters of the Pick of
Grungni, Causers of the Terror of the Goblins and Sons of the
Blood of Grungni are gold on the left side y black in the right
(grey if the tunic is black). For the Masters of the Mountain is
gold on the right side and silver on the left, and for the
Masters of Gold is of gold in the left and silver on the right.
For the Masters of Security, Masters of Silver, Masters of the
Runes, Keepers of Secrets, First-born of the Pick of Grungni and
Causers of the Fear of the Goblins it is silver. For the Bearers
of the Pick of Grungni, the Sons of the Stone, the Avenging Sons
and the Sons of the Fury it is bronze. The Sons of Grungni have
embroidered a black pick without border, and the Acolytes of the
Silver Pick bear a silver pick without any adornment. Members of
the Order of Honor have an aditional border of red color. The
High Priest has embroidered a pick of gold without any adornment.

     Area of worship: Grungni is worshiped by Dwarfs throughout
the Old World.

     Temples: Every Dwarfhold in the Old World has a temple to
Grungni; in most cases it takes the form of a large shrine or
statue in the main hall of the hold, where the entire population
gathers to worship.

     Friends and enemies: The cult of Grungni is on frendly terms
with the rest of the Dwarven pantheon. It has little to do with
those of other races, but is hostile to the natural enemies of
the Dwarven race (like goblinoid Gods).

     Holy days: Lesser festivals to Grungni are held every ten
days, with a major festival every hundred years. Festivals are
also held at the end of each of the four annual periods, on
Ghermanzhan 33rd.

     Cult requirements: The cult of Grungni is open to any adult
dwarf.

     Strictures: All initiates and clerics of Grungni must abide
by the following strictures:

     Never allow a tunnel or chamber to become structurally
     unsafe.

     Never surrender to the Goblins and their kin.

     Followers of Grungni beleive it is their sword duty to
regain control of all Goblin-held Dwarfholds wherever possible.

     In some areas, specially in the north-eastern parts of the
Empire, the Order of Honor of the cult of Grungni has dedicated
to the destruction of those Dwarfs who have sided with Chaos.
They swear an oath never to leave a Chaos Dwarf alive, even if
this means that they must give up their own lives.

     Spell use: Clerics of Grungni may use all Battle Magic as
well as Elemental Magic (mainly related to Earth).

     Skills: Followers of Grungni do not have access to any
skills other than those listed under the revelant career entries,
although clerics may gain Mining twice, doubling the effect. They
may do this at any stage in their career, but they must pay for
the skill with Experience Points as usual.

     Trials: A trial set by Grungni will often involve clearing
a nest of Goblinoids out of a lost dwarfhold, or extending an
existing one to discover new deposits of ore or a new source of
underground water, or to create a new shrine chamber.

     Blessings: Skills favoured by Grungni are Dowsing, Engineer,
Mining and Stoneworking. Favoured tests are Construct, Observe
and Search.

     Notes: This structure was greatly spread over the year 2500
of Dwarf reckoning (3000 years ago) and has remained with little
change since then. Since the number of priests since the Goblin
Wars started have been very little, many times priests have been
obligued to have more than one title and even to belong to
several orders in order to cover all needs. So it is not unsual
for a Master of the Pick of Gold to be also a Master of the
Mountain and a Master of Gold.

     Besides, several lesser orders appear and disappear,
covering some new aspects as need arises, and some gods of the
Dwarf pantheon cover the services of one order in some
strongholds, so the cult is not so uniform throughout the Old
World.

     The meaning of Kraz is 'more than Master', which is the
highest title an artisan, priest or engineer can achieve.

     Here is a summary of the Hierarchy of the Cult:

             High Priest of the Cult of Grungni
                            |
      -------------------------------------------
     |              |              |             |
Kraz of the    Kraz of the    Kraz of the       Kraz
Everlasting       Stone         Pick of      Goblinbane
 Mountain                       Grungni          |
                                                 |
                                               Kraz
                                             Chaosbane


Kraz of the Everlasting Mountain
               |
      -------------------
     |                   |
 Masters of           Masters of
the Mountain            Gold
     |                   |
 Masters of           Masters of
  Security          Gromril/Silver
     |                   |
      -------------------
               |
  Bearers of the Pick of Grungni


        Kraz of the Stone
               |
        Kraz of the Earth
               |
      -------------------
     |         |         |
 Masters of    |     Keepers of
 the Runes     |      Secrets
               |
        Sons of the Stone


   Kraz of the Pick of Mithril
               |
   Masters of the Pick of Gold
               |
First-born of the Pick of Grungni


          Kraz Goblinbane
                 |
 Causers of the Terror of the Goblins
                 |
  Causers of the Fear of the Goblins
                 |
           Avanging Sons


      Kraz Chaosbane
            |
Sons of the Blood of Grungni
            |
     Sons of the Fury


          All orders
             |
       Sons of Grungni
             |
Acolytes of the Pick of Silver

