From inoble@VNET.IBM.COMMon Aug 14 08:34:12 1995
Date: Tue, 24 Jan 95 10:37:50 GMT
From: Ian Noble <inoble@VNET.IBM.COM>
Reply to: The wfrp mailing list <wfrp@gojira.monsta.com>
To: wfrp@gojira.monsta.com
Subject: What do you do with a used Giant-Slayer?

The following is something I've had to cook up to give one of the
players in my campaign somewhere to go.  It's a first draft,
so I'm sure there are holes in it you could drive a truck
through.  Comments appreciated.



The psychology of the Dwarven Slayer suggests that the only exit from
the career of Giant-Slayer (within the confines of a WFRP campaign)
is death.  Great.  So what do you do with a Giant-Slayer who's
taken all their advances, but is still alive?

The Slayer who simply feels they have redeemed their honour has
an easy solution - take up another career.  But what about one
who still feels their disgrace, has fought Giants, Dragons
and Daemons, and yet lives?

----------------------------------------------------------------------

It sometimes happens that a Slayer will repeatedly face certain
and imminent death, always have it snatched bizarrely or improbably
away.  Adwarf who has truly sought death only to be so denied it
may come to believe that it is not their doom to die in such a fashion.    Some will understand that they have at last redeemed
their honour.  Others will adopt a more fatalistic view:



Knurri Svartbergen and the Order of the Denied


Around the year 5200 on the dwarven calendar (2200 as measured by
humans), and faced by a long-forgottten dishonour that seared his
being until only his own death might bring relief, a dwarf named
Knurri Svartbergen chose the doom of a Slayer.  Though for years
he sought death in its many shapes throughout the old world, always
it eluded him.

At last, around 5310, his wanderings brought him to Norsca, and to
confrontation with the waves of Chaos spawn pouring down at
that time from the northern wastes.  On a hillside there, assaulted
from all sides by unending hordes of foul creatures, Knurri faced at
a daemon greater than any he had encountered before.  Knee-deep in
those he had already killed, Knurri at last found himself bested,
and fell before the onslaught of the daemon's hellish blade.  Yet
that was not the end.


As his body lay wrecked and motionless on the battlefield, bleeding
from many wounds, Knurri had a vision.  In it, he walked along a
great tunnel.  The walls, roof and floor were of mithril ore, and
within the mithril gems of strange colours glowed.  Far ahead a
bright light glowed, reflecting off the walls and gems and
illuminating the tunnel with myriad beams of colour.  Around him,
it seemed, walked many others, shadows glimpsed from the corner of
an eye.

For a period during which time had no meaning to him Knurri travelled
along the corridor, the light getting ever-brighter.  At last, as it
got so bright that he felt it must blind him, he found himself
approaching its source.  Ahead two great carved stone doors stood
ajar.  Glimpsed beyond them, its soft glow low and warm in contrast
to the cold brilliance in the tunnel, a welcoming fire glowed in a
great hearth in the middle of a hall carved from the solid rock.
>From the hall came voices - laughter and the sounds of singing, the
familiar rhythms and cadances of the halls of his childhood.  And in
the doorway, between the hall and Knurri, stood an old dwarf with
many scars and but one eye - Hrungnor, who placed his hands on
Knurri's shoulders, halting him with a grip that was at once gentle
yet as firm as granite.

As a river of half-seen figures swirled past them both, Hrungnor fixed
Knurri in the gaze of his good eye and spoke.
"Why have you come?"
>From a distance, Knurri heard himself reply.  "I come to pay the debt
I owe."
"This road is not yet yours to travel.  Go back."
"I cannot.  Or... am I never to be permitted to redeem my honour?"
"I did not say so.  Yet your shame is great, and your burden may not
be so easily laid aside."
"Then tell me what I must do, for I long to be free of it."

It seemed to Knurri that Hrungnor paused for a long time before
replying, contemplating the vaguely-seen shapes that flowed
endlessly past them.  When at last he spoke, it was in a voice weary
with care.  "As you see, many others, who carry no such burden as
yours, also tread these halls before they should, and must be given
leave to pass.  Do what little you may to keep them from disturbing me,
and at last we shall talk again.  Now, go back."

With a gentle motion he pushed Knurri from him, and it seemed to
Knurri that he was thrown back down the tunnel at an immense speed,
until at last he stood under a clouded sky looking down at his own
corpse on the battlefield.  As he watched, the blood that had
drained from his body ran once more, seeping from the ground in
rivulets and pouring back into his veins.  Before him the many
wounds closed.  And at last the vision ended, and he awoke to find
himself alive and alone on the battlefield amongst the bodies of the
slain.

For days he sat in thought, pondering the meaning of his vision whilst
around him the scavangers picked over the carcasses of the dead.
Finally he stood, and, casting off his armour, swore a solomn oath:
Neither to seek his own death nor to shun it, accepting its gift when
the gods willed, but to devote his skills to the well-being of his
kin.  Leaving that place he travelled far and wide, learning the
healing arts, always willing to risk his life for his kin, but no
longer seeking his own death.

Word of this strange dwarf spread amongst his kind, and around him
slowly gathered a small number of other Slayers of like mind, forming
at last the Order of the Denied.  Knurri died at last at the age of
183 in the final desperate sortie that drove the armies of the Black
Orc captain Murbash Gronondak back from the shattered gates of Kharak-
Zhardhul.  By the time of his death members of the Order were to be
found by ones and twos (rarely more) in dwarf communities across the
old world.


Hrungnor, Dwarven god of Death and Lost Causes


Description:

     The dwarfs know Hrungnor in more than one guise - notably as
     Keeper of the Doors to the Halls of Passage (and by extension of
     doors and defended portals everywhere).  The aspect of Hrungnor
     considered here is that worshipped by clerics of the Order of
     the Denied.  Hrungnor is commonly depicted as an old dwarf with
     a scar across his blind right eye, standing in front of a door
     dressed in simple, sombre clothes, and leaning upon a stout
     wooden stick.  He scrutinizes each soul that arrives at the
     Doors for the manner of its death, reading their innermost
     secrets and judging their worth to pass.  Those whose deaths
     he finds wanting will usually continue their existance as ghosts
     in the place at which they died, until time and fortune may allow
     them in some way to atone for their shortcomings.  Like his
     counterpart Morr in the Human pantheon, Hrungnor is also god of dreams.


Alignment:

     Neutral


Symbol:

     Hrungnor's symbols are a closed and barred door, or a stylised
     beam of bright light (symbolising his piercing gaze).


Area of Worship:

     Hrungnor is respected wherever dwarfs gather, but by and large
     not worshipped.  Only at the death of kin or a respected comrade,
     or on completion of the portals of a building or other defense will
     dwarves normally actively petition him.  The Order of the Denied
     is the only known instance of organised worship of Hrungnor, and
     its members are few and widely scattered.


Temples:

     There are no temples to Hrungnor, although his image or
     symbols are often found on the doors of dwarven constructions.
     Individual members of the Order of the Denied may have small shrines
     to Hrungnor within their dwellings.


Friends and Enemies:

     The cult of Hrungnor as represented by the Order of the Denied
     is on friendly terms with other members of the Dwarven pantheon.  It
     has little to do with those of other races, although it is on good
     terms with the cult of Morr, and regards the cult of Shallya
     in a friendly manner.  The cult of Shallya, by contrast,
     views the Order with strong suspicion because of its
     readiness to use violence.


Holy Days:

     Dwarves regard times when both of the moons Mannslieb and
     Morrslieb are dark as sacred to Hrungnor.  Because of the
     behaviour of Morrslieb these have no set or predictable place
     on the calendar.


Cult Requirements:

     The Order of the Denied is open to Dwarves who have followed
     the path of the Slayer in search of their own death and yet
     survived.  Normally they will have been spared by the most
     unlikely turns of events, or will have faced such extreme danger
     that they believe it is not the will of the gods that they die
     that way.


Strictures:

     It is the duty of all Initiates and Clerics of the Order of
     the Denied to learn the healing arts in order to minister to other
     dwarves.  It is also their duty to use their martial skills to
     protect those dwarves obviously weaker than themselves.

     Followers of Hrungnor adopt a fatalistic attitude to their own
     survival, relying upon the skills they have to determine their doom.
     The wearing of armour is frowned upon as an unworthy attempt to extend
     the wearer's life, as is the knowing use of enchanted weaponery.
     Either of these strictures may be ignored in extreme cases, when it
     plain that not to do so must result in the death of other dwarfs.
     However, a follower of Hrungnor who ignores one or both must
     immediately undertake a period of solitary pennance of not less than
     one month while they contemplate their fitness to be members of the
     order.


Spell Use:

     Clerics of Hrungnor may use all Petty Magic, plus the
     following spells:
     *Cure Light Injury*,
     *Cure Severe Wound*,
     *Zone of Sanctuary*,
     *Zone of Steadfastness* (the *Zone* spells will normally
     only be used to protect others, rather than the caster).

     They may also use the specialist spell *Heal Injury*
     available to followers of Shallya.

     They may also use all Necromantic magic spells EXCEPT
     the following:
     *Hand of Death*,
     *Hand of Dust*,
     *Life in Death*,
     *Wind of Death*
     They may never bring undead into being except with the explicit
     permission of Hrungnor (by means of an omen, a divination or
     a dream)

Skills:

     In addition to the normal range of skills available to
     Initiates and Clerics, followers of Hrungnor automatically gain the
     skill *Heal Wounds* at the Initiate stage.  Clerics of Hrungnor
     may choose *one* of the following skills at each level:
     *Cure Disease*, *Herb Lore*, *Identify Plant*, *Immunity
     to Disease*, *Surgery*.  These skills must be bought with
     Experience Points in the usual way.


Trials:

     Trials set by Hrungnor will normally involve some variation on
     protecting the weak, or ministering to the sick.

Blessings:

     Blessings favoured by Hrungnor will relate to the skills
     above.  The final blessing Hrnugnor can award, of course, is death.
