Mordred 
Dwarven Sub-Cult of Grungni
Patron of Weapons

Description : Mordred von Draco , was once a mortal.  
A giant slayer of legendary martial prowess.  He roamed 
the Old World with another giant slayer named Torag B. 
Zeurk.  After years of adventuring, Mordred was finally 
defeated - by a God!, Mordred held off the earthly 
embodiment of Khaine, Lord of Murder, to save the 
Old World and the Elven Kingdoms.

Alignment : Neutral

Symbol : Grungni's pick axe crossed with a dwarven 
2-handed axe

Area of Worship : Worshipped by a few Dwarven Warriors, 
Mainly in the north.

Temples : Similar to the temples of Grungni except there 
is 2 statues in the main hall instead of one.

Friends and Enemies :   
The cult of Mordred is on friendly terms with the dwarven 
pantheons, and the cult is hostile to the natural enemies 
of the dwarven race and it also has hatred towards 
followers of Khaine.

Holy Days : Lesser festivals held every 10 days, with a 
major festival every 100 days.  Mordred's death fell upon 
the 33rd of Vorhexen and this is regarded as a sacred day.

Strictures : All initiates and clerics of Mordred must
abide by the following strictures :-
 1)  Never Surrender to the Goblins and their kin
 2)  Destroy all Goblinoids, Chaos, Followers of Khaine
 3)  Never refuse a challenge of combat
 4)  Gun Powder Weapons are prohibited.

Cult Requirements : Open to all adult Dwarven male and
female warriors

Spell Use : All petty and Battle Magic

Skills : Consume Alcohol, Dodge Blow,. Frenzied Attack,
Luck , 6th Sense, Street Fighter, Very Strong, Very 
Resilient, Specialist Weapons - fist, 2-handed.

Trials : Almost All of a martial Nature

Blessings :
Tests include :- Fear,Terror, Strength & Toughness

The Main Temple is in the city state of Nuln, in a converted 
large town house which was a present from the Countess for 
services to the city and people of Nuln.

The Head Cleric is called Rogni Gurlock.  Level 3 Cleric ex 
Witch Hunter. The only other piece of information about Rogni 
is that he currently has the Doomstone of Fire, see Doomstones 
Campaign Part One.