From MadAlfred@aol.comMon Aug 14 08:55:17 1995
Date: Wed, 19 Apr 1995 01:45:00 -0400
From: MadAlfred@aol.com
Reply to: The wfrp mailing list <wfrp@gojira.monsta.com>
To: WFRP@gojira.monsta.com
Subject: WFRP: Cult of Ormazd

By popular (one person) demand, I'm reposting the cult description of Ormazd.

(Obligatory copyright statement)
I am releasing the following material from an article I have written which
may be used only in a GM's home campaign.  I reserve all rights to the
descriptive material, including locations and characters, while
system-specific material is copyright by GW.

Alfred Nunez
Hauptdirektor- Schwarzmantel


ORMAZD -- God of Araby

Description:  Ormazd is the sole Arabian god.  Also known as
Al-Alnon ("The One"), Ormazd was once the Sun God and ruler of
the pantheon of Kemet.  While followers of the Old World cults
(e.g., Taal, Rhya, Ulric) still lived in mud huts, worshippers of
Ormazd began to build the great civilization along the banks of
the River Nyllus.  From the union of Ormazd and his consort,
Innuli, came the other deities of the Kemet pantheon:  Orierus,
god of the night and the underworld; Besta, goddess of cats and
stealth; Thebias, god of knowledge, magic, and music; Kleamanta,
goddess of rivers and fertility; Horanam the Vengeful, god of war
and retribution; and Nefarini, goddess of beauty and protector of
the family.
   The Kemet Empire grew strong and without rival until the
Pharaoh Ormahkaten ("Chosen of Ormazd") placed the cult of Ormazd
above all others and thereby enraged the other cults.  Upon
Ormahkaten's death, a Civil War erupted in Kemet which ended when
the land was overrun by the Hettites.  The gods of Kemet,
including the newly-arrived Khaine,  rebelled against Ormazd at
this time.  Incensed by this outrage, Ormazd baked the land for
years, punishing corrupt deity and mortal alike before taking his
leave of them.
   Having abandoned Kemet to its fate, Ormazd found believers in
the nomadic Arabian tribes of the desert.  For years Ormazd
tested his new worshippers to ensure their devoutness and avoid
the problems that plagued the now-decadent and degenerating Kemet
Empire.  At this time, Ormazd came across Nefarini and Horanam
who pleaded for his return.  Instead, Ormazd stripped his
treacherous children of their powers and vowed eternal revenge
against the the other gods of Kemet (including Khaine).
   Ormazd returned to strengthening his worshippers spiritually
through teachers, known as Prophets.  The tenets of Arabian law
developed during this time.  In Kemet, Black Magic (Necromancy)
became dominant and the ruling class more decrepit under the
Kemetian gods.  Their cults were soon overwhelmed when Kemet was
subjugated by foreign (Old World) powers.  With these new rulers,
the cults of the Old World (chiefly, Myrmidia and Verena) came to
dominate Kemet.
   The last (and greatest) Prophet, Mulhaed al-Quyat began his
teachings in the caravan town of Mendai.  It was he who inspired
the Arabian forces into a holy war which resulted in the downfall
of the Constantian Empire and the conversion of the people in the
lands of Araby to the worship of Ormazd.
   Ormazd is never portrayed in any form as to do so is a
violation of his scriptures.

Alignment:  Neutral.

Symbol:  Ormazd's symbols are a pillar of fire, the sun, and a
flaming scimitar.  Priests wear plain white robes without symbols
or adornments.  Templars of the Scimitar (an Order dedicated to
Ormazd) may wear the traditional heraldry of the Order on light
chain mail, shield, and barding.  Shield bears the device of a
flaming scimitar.

Area of Worship:  Ormazd is worshipped throughout Araby and in
some pockets in the lands of the Border Princes.  Formerly, a
great portion of Estalia also worshipped Ormazd until all the
Arabian forces were driven out.

Temples:  The greatest temple to Ormazd is found in the holy city
of Mendai, birthplace of the Prophet Mulhaed al-Quyat.  The
temple grounds are the largest in the world as they must
accommodate the multitude of the faithful who are on pilgrimage
to this site.  As with all temples to Ormazd, the Great Temple is
dominated by a large central dome surrounded by a number of
lesser domes.  There are no ornations to the exterior and
interior walls of the temple nor furnishings within except for a
mosaic on the floor.  The mosaic is usually that of the sun,
although other symbols of Ormazd may be used in addition. 
Adjacent to this temple is the residence of the High Priest of
the cult and the hall where he meets with his council of priests.
   Other temples and shrines of Ormazd include a niche in the
wall indicating the direction to the city of Mendai.  This
enables the faithful to offer their prayers in the right
direction.  Shrines to Ormazd are found alongside the main roads
connecting the cities of Araby, usually at a day's journey
distance from one another.

Friends and Enemies:  Although they are tolerant, the cult of
Ormazd knows only disdain for the cults of the Old World.  They
also harbor suspicion towards the cults of the Elder Races and
fanatical hatred towards the cult of Khaine (the cults of the
other Kemetian gods have long since vanished) .

Holy Days:  The major sacred days to Ormazd are the summer and
winter solstices (marking the change in the skyward movements of
the sun) and the spring and fall equinoxes (signifying the start
of the planting and harvesting of crops, respectively).  Lesser
holy days correspond to Hexenstag and Geheimnistag on the
Imperial calendar when Ormazd is called upon to protect the
faithful from the machinations of the cult of Khaine.  Moreover,
Ormazd holds every eighth day (Festag on the Imperial calendar)
as a day of rest and religious observances. 

Cult Requirements:  Petitioners must be Human, believe in the
supremacy of Ormazd, and denounce the worship of any deity other
than Ormazd. 

Strictures:  Followers of Ormazd must abide by the following
strictures:
   -Never imbibe alcoholic drinks as it weakens the spirit.
   -Once bread is broken with one's host, never repay his
hospitality with treachery.
   -Never refuse a traveler seeking shelter and treat them with
honor.
   -Never represent Ormazd in the guise of mortal men.  His being
defies any and all description.
   -Always heed religious leaders and teachers.
   -Tolerate the religion of others, unless they worship Evil or
Chaotic powers.
   -Always oppose Necromancers and the cult of Khaine.
   -Never suffer the existence of the accursed Undead.
   -Always defend your kin against hostile actions by outsiders.
   -Always pray three times a day facing the direction of the
holy city of Mendai.
   -Always revere the martyr as they gave up their life for the
glory of Ormazd.

Spell Use: Clerics of Ormazd may use all Petty Magic, Battle
Magic, and fire-based Elemental Magic spells.  In addition,
clerics of Ormazd may have access to the Necromantic Magic spells
Destroy Undead (Level 1), Zone of Life (Level 1), and Annihilate
Undead (Level 3).  Moreover, the following spells may be used by
Clerics of Ormazd:

Sunspear
Spell Level: 2
Magic Points: 8
Range: 10 yards
Duration: Instantaneous
Ingredients: A 1" copper rod
   The spell grants the cleric the ability to call down a narrow
beam of fire from the heavens which burns one targeted individual
or creature.  This spell may only be cast if sunlight is present.
   Inflammable creatures receive 1d6+2 wounds at Strength 6 while
flammable creatures receive 2d6+4 wounds at Strength 6. 
Flammable objects struck by the sunspear will be set alight.
   The sunspear has great power against Daemons and Undead,
causing 2d6+4 wounds at Strength 6 and blinding the target for
1d4 rounds.  Such creatures must also make an Instability test
immediately.  Any control exercised over targeted Undead is
immediately broken and must be re-established by the controller.

Flaming Scimitar
Spell Level: 3
Magic Points: 10
Range: Touch
Duration: 1d6+3 rounds
Ingredients: A 2" plate of burnished copper.
   The cleric is granted the ability to cause one touched
scimitar to become a magical flaming weapon for the duration of
the spell.  In addition this spell grants the wielder of the
flaming scimitar a temporary increase of +10 to WS and +1 to
Strength.
   Inflammable creatures receive 1d6+2 wounds at the strength of
the wielder while flammable creatures receive 2d6+4 wounds at the
strength of the wielder.  Flammable objects struck by the flaming
scimitar will be set aflame.
   The flaming scimitar has great power against Daemons and
Undead,  causing 2d6+4 wounds at the strength of the wielder. 
Such creatures must also make an Instability test immediately. 
Any control exercised over targeted Undead is immediately broken
and must be re-established by the controller.

Skills: In addition to the skills normally available to them,
Clerics of Ormazd automatically receive Law (Arabian) and Secret
Signs-Arabian skills without having to spend Experience Points. 
Also, they may choose two extra skills at each level, from the
following list: Acute Hearing, Animal Care, Astronomy, Cure
Disease, Disarm, Dodge Blow, Dowsing, Etiquette, Excellent
Vision, Follow Trail, Heal Wounds, Herb Lore (Desert/Arid
Places), History, Identify Plant (Desert/Arid Places),
Orientation (Desert/Arid Places), Ride, Silent Move-Rural
(Desert/Arid Places), Strike to Stun, Surgery (may only be taken
after Heal Wounds and Cure Disease).  As always, skills gained
must be paid for with Experience Points.

Trials:  Trials set by Ormazd tend to be of a martial nature. 
One example of such trials may be searching the ancient tombs and
ruins of Kemet, Nippur, or Assuria for nests of Undead or
cultists of Khaine and destroy them.  Another may take the form
of raids on Goblinoid settlements and strongholds on the Badlands
side of the Marg beh-Mard Desert.  For less militant followers of
Ormazd, trials may be of a more religious nature such as
converting tribes in the Southlands to the cult.

Blessings:  Skills favored by Ormazd include combative skills
(Disarm, Dodge Blow, Strike to Stun) and survival skills (e.g.,
Heal Wounds, Identify Plant, Orientation).  Favored tests are
Fear, Terror, Poison, or Disease tests to counteract the special
attacks of the Undead.  Other blessings might include temporary
increases to Will Power and Cool.
