From mbsimon@artsci.wustl.eduMon Aug 14 08:49:14 1995
Date: Wed, 22 Feb 1995 19:21:12 -0600 (GMT-0600)
From: Elvis <mbsimon@artsci.wustl.edu>
Reply to: The wfrp mailing list <wfrp@gojira.monsta.com>
To: wfrp@gojira.monsta.com
Subject: WFRP: Chaos god

	Greetings, I just thought I'd throw up an idea that has been
invading my dreams lately.  It's a new chaos god and I've thouroughly 
changed some of the rules for him.  As a basis I used the "Creating an
Independent Demonic Power" in Slaves to Darkness.
	After reading about magic and chaos in the Realms of Chaos books
I wondered what a "tormented" or "insane" soul would be like, then I 
figured with the growing power of chaos, and the absolute state of insanity
that someone who dies from possession or a summoning would be strong enough
by now to create a new or still awakening chaos power. (in the campaign 
that I started playing in a summononing required a live sacrifice, the
person watched as the demon clawed its way out of their body) 

	Rhasneth (Lord of Insanity)
 
	The Lord of Insanity is a rather striking figure.  Standing 
around six and a half feet tall (2m) with dark features and dressed
in a conservative, but wealthy, outfit.  Rhasneth looks absolutely 
normal in all respects, and many people have mistaken him for Morr, 
since he sometimes has a crow on his shoulder.  His only goal is in 
creating more insanity, and as such all of the insane are his to 
influence and manipulate, or try to.  He will assume the race of whoever
he is talking to.  
	Rhasneth is very definatly a "behind the scenes player" 
communicating through dreams and his minions.  He also feeds off all of 
the other chaos powers, since every time they act in the old world
insanity is sure to spread.  
	Now what I thought would be fun for the demons of Rhasneth, 
and any personal incarnation, is to change the magic weapons rule.
For the lord of insanity, I believed that only those with at least 
one insanity point could see that the demon was a demon, otherwise 
they look absolutely normal.  Just imagine the PC's strolling through
a city and passing a demon, just strolling by and whistling.  Instead of
having to use magic weapons, I thought it would really be fun to make 
normal weapons work, but the weilder must have at least one insanity 
point to hit it.  
	As far as magic goes, I would have to say illusion is Rhasneth 
playground.  But I was also pondering the idea of a "real" illusion
similar to the realm of dreams.  Rhasneth, would also not be a 
physically powerful figure.  More of a mental giant.  I see his 
followers being varied, but scholastic.(Sorcerors, Young mages who 
summoned more than they could handle, Clergy who had their faith 
destroyed, people who witnessed summonings, etc...)  Anyway, 
this was just a thought crossing my mind, let me know what you think. 
  
				-Mark Simon

        
