
*SOMORPHIA - Goddess of Eternal Beauty

>Description:
 In the days before being imprisoned, Arianka bore a daughter - 
Somorphia (name based on the Greek 'omorphia'='beauty').  Somorphia 
embodies eternal and unchanging beauty and her afterworld is filled 
with all manner of exquisitely beautiful objects.  Being somewhat 
less martial than Solkan and less esoteric than Alluminas, hers is 
perhaps the most popular law cult.
 In the same way as Alluminas handles the scholary side of the law 
pantheon and Solkan the martial side, Somorphia is the visible face 
of law to everyday Old Worlders.

>Alignment:
 Lawful.

>Symbol:
 Somorphia is typically portrayed as a tall young woman of 
mind-wrenching beauty.  Her symbol of a golden ring set with a 
sparkling sapphire is worn by those who can afford such things, others 
make do with an embroided design on their clothes.  All her followers 
wear clothes of a deep blue colour.

>Area of Worship:
 Perhaps the most popular of the gods of law, Somorphia is 
worshipped throughout the Old World, and is particularly popular in 
Estalia.

>Temples:
 Somorphia is perhaps the only god of law to have established temples 
in the Old World cities, her chief temple being in the Estalian city 
of Magritta.  All her temples and shrines embrace the beauty that 
Somorphia embodies, and are a joy to behold.  They are also a 
favorite target of chaos attacks...

>Friends and Enemies:
 Somorphia remains strictly neutral to the majority of Old World 
religion, but hates the chaos gods, who regularly and needlessly 
destroy the beauty she creates.

>Holy Days:
 Somorphia holds the Spring Equinox holy, marking the beauty of 
nature.

>Cult Requirements:
 All who appreciate beauty and oppose the cancer of chaos are 
welcomed by Somorphia.

>Strictures:
 - Oppose chaos whereever it may be found.
 - Never damage, destroy or deface a thing of beauty, no matter what the 
circumstances, and prevent others from doing likewise.  This 
stricture is relaxed in the case of gem cutting.

>Spell Use:
 Somorphia grants access to all petty and elemental magic spells.

>Skills:
 Clerics of Somorphia may buy one of the skills Art and Gem Cutting 
at each level.

>Trials:
 Typical trials involve saving an object of great beauty in danger of 
being destroyed, or which is held by a chaos cult.  (This could be a 
good campaign hook, providing some interesting roleplaying: does the 
cleric of Somorphia destroy the exquisitely beautiful but wholy evil 
chaos magic item or not?).

>Blessings:
 Somorphia favours the skills above and favoured tests include busk 
tests based on the Art skill and tests on the Gem Cutting skill.

  TTFN.
  Ian Ward
  aca95idw@sheffield.ac.uk

