Date: Tue, 23 Jul 1996 16:39:11 -0600 (CST)
From: DAY@UHCL4.CL.UH.EDU
To: wfrp@buddha.intecom.com
Subject: proposed scenario continuing Enemy Within
Message-ID: <01I7F3GCVS5U8X6SRY@UHCL4.CL.UH.EDU>

WFRP Scenario--Chaos Again?  By D. Day

Background

What follows is the outline of a possible extension for the Enemy
Within campaign, so if you haven't yet played in it or finished
playing in it, read no further.

The scenario grew out of an uncertainty what to do with my player
characters after the end of the Enemy series; one quite possible
answer would be "nothing," as the characters by that point are
usually quite powerful.  You may find, though, that not all of your
players are willing to part with their characters, and if you
decide to let them continue to run them, they'll need a real
challenge--which this scenario provides.  You may also find that
the player characters at the end of the Enemy series occupy
positions of considerable power within the Empire, making
adventuring difficult, or possibly that one or more of the players
may wish to "retire" their characters from active gaming.  This
scenario makes it quite possible for such characters to "hire"
middle level player characters (run by their player alter egos, of
course) to undertake the various challenges presented to them.  The
final character mix may thus include not only some of the very
powerful characters that finished the Enemy series, but also some
less powerful characters acting as agents for the older retired
heroes.  This was the case with my group.

How you fit the scenario into your campaign will depend largely on
what your surviving players did with the rewards section at the end
of the Empire in Flames book--of my three survivors, one (a
rogue/assassin type, herein referred to as Rick) took the job of
Chancellor of Nuln; incidentally, this was also the character
mistaken for Kaspar Lieberung by the Purple Hand early in the Enemy
series.  Another, a fighter/heroic type, herein referred to as
Keith, took advantage of some romantic hints thrown his way during
the Power Behind the Throne and married Katarina Todbringer, thus
becoming the consort of the Gravine of Middenheim and the half-
brother in law of Emperor Heinrich.  I formulated the scenario to
take as much advantage as possible of these two powerful political
connections; if your people did something different, you could
still juggle the factual circumstances to get them involved.

Basically, the scenario tries to take advantage of the several
loose ends left from the Enemy campaign.  One of these I've already
mentioned--the case of mistaken identity by the Nuln branch of the
Purple Hand.  The other more important one is the disappearance of
Karl Heinz Wasmeier at the end of the Power Behind the Throne--he's
just too good of a villain to toss out, and his ambiguous departure
allows you to bring back an old enemy of your players who should be
able to challenge them.  Well, he's baaack, and looking to mix some
sophisticated business with revenge; always, in his coolly
calculating way of looking at things, a great combination.

Wasmeier's Doings
The scenario should be set several months after the events covered
in the Empire in Flames; in our case, since we play very
infrequently, I made it about a year after the end of that book and
two years after the end of the Power Behind the Throne.

Herr Wasmeier has been busy over the last several months. 
Realizing that the Empire was too hot to hold him, he made his way
to Marienburg and eventually to Araby, where he has been furthering
his magical education by poking into all the ancient towers,
magical caves and forbidden pyramids he can find--he has thus
gained a fourth Wizard level and his first Elementalist level (who
says the bad guys can't get better with time?).  He initially
allowed his connection to the Middenheim Purple Hand to lapse
somewhat, especially given its disarray following his defeat and
the defeat of Chaos in the late Civil War. 

For the first six months, he travelled to Araby and then spent his
time in magical exploration and research; he eventually found his
way to the Sultanate of Hijaz, a rocky, mountain bound desert land
on the "point" of Araby, on the sea trade routes to the sultanates
and principalities bordering on the Gulf of Tabouli and the New
Coast settlements in the Southlands.  The capital and main port of
Salapa is the main settlement of the Sultanate and a city of
considerable size and sophistication.  It derives the bulk of its
income from sea trade and has relatively little to do with the
tributary bedouin tribes that live in the hot, dry interior.

In the course of his wanderings and researches, Wasmeier was drawn
to Hijaz by tales of ancient ruins of incredible antiquity lying in
the mountains on the eastern borders of the sultanate.  He made his
way there and discovered an Arabian elementalist, Al Kitab Al
Quibir, who was already at the site and had been exploring it for
several months.  Wasmeier managed to win Al Kitab's trust and was
even taken under his wing as a pupil; after getting all of the
information he could about the site and about Elementalism in
general, Wasmeier murdered the hapless sorcerer and took over his
researches.  He then established a base camp at the site and
started to recruit flunkies and followers in Salapa, eventually
establishing a nascent Purple Hand organization in Hijaz.  He then
made contact with Purple Hand followers in the Empire, and a few of
them have moved to Hijaz to help with the work.  Over the last year
or so, his power and influence in the Sultanate has grown
considerably; it met an initial check when he ran into the
Slaaneshi cult of the Ocher Phallus which was already established
at the court in Salapa, thanks to Zeriti, the witch concubine of
the current Sultan, Al Firouk al Hijaz; she has thoroughly
debouched the Sultan and made him her willing slave.  Initially,
Zeriti and her followers were alarmed by Wasmeier and sought to
remove him, but after a few unsuccessful attempts Wasmeier proposed
an alliance of the two groups and it has held--so far.  Zeriti is
interested in Wasmeier's researches into the ruins in the east, and
anxious to share in any power he uncovers there.  To this end, she
has established a Slaaneshi presence at the site in the form of the
eunuch Ghulam Al-Tarafi, a particularly degenerate individual, and
his two bodyguards.

After continual digging at the site, Wasmeier is convinced that he
has discovered the ruins of a citadel of the Old Slann, although he
cannnot discover the exact nature of the site, being unable to
decipher the various inscriptions and tablets he has found.  From
what he has been able to gather from Al Kitab's researches, though,
he believes that the citadel may have been the repository of a
Slann device called the Sssiss-tk, a machine of great power.  Al
Kitab believes it may have allowed an individual Slann to travel
from one world to another through warpspace without the necessity
of a warpship, making it a machine of inconceivable power. 
Wasmeier has been unable to penetrate into the lower levels of the
citadel, though, because he cannot unlock the doorways into them
and cannot read the inscriptions and texts that might give him the
clue to how to proceed.  He has therefore decided to travel back to
the Empire to engage, willingly or no, the services of Diogenes
Teufelsdrockh, the noted Slann researcher at Altdorf University, to
translate the documents for him.

On arriving at Marienburg, Wasmeier enlists with a sizeable bribe
the aid of the reassembling Purple Hand organization, reforming
outside Imperial jurisdiction after the debacle of Middenheim and
Wolfenburg.  The Purple Hand organization in Marienburg is led by
one Rufus Vitarna, nee Albrecht Feinstein, late of Nuln.  Feinstein
and his cohorts are quite interested in assisting Wasmeier because
of his power overseas and his willingness to share the wealth and
influence he has acquired in Hijaz.  Wasmeier for his part is
interested in events in the Empire, especially the news that the
hated adventurers who undid his scheme in Middenheim are exactly
the same ones who saved the Empire at Wolfenburg.  He is also
fascinated to learn that one of them is none other than the Purple
Hand renegade Kaspar Lieberung, that Lieberung has become
chancellor of Nuln, that his old enemy Heinrich is now Emperor, and
that another of the hated heroes has married Katarina Todbringer. 
Wasmeier sees a chance to destroy his old enemies and also to
humiliate Heinrich, all in one go.

Wasmeier's Profile:  this is an expansion of the profile given for
this man in the Power Behind the Throne.

Karl Heinz Wasmeier
M     5
WS    45
BS    42
S     4
T     5
W     11
I     74  +10
A     1
Dex   53  
Ld    58
Int   69  
Cl    56  
WP    57  
Fel   38

Arcane Language--Elemental Magic
Arcane Language--Elvish
Arcane Language--Dwarvish
Arcane Language--Magic
Demon Lore
Evaluate
Herb Lore
Identify Magical Artifact
Identify Plants
Identify Undead
Lightning Reflexes
Magic Sense
Magical Awareness
Meditation
Prepare Poison
Read/Write
Ride
Rune Lore
Secret Language--Classical
Scroll Lore
Sixth Sense
Very Resilient

Petty Magic:
Curse
Gift of Tongues
Magic Alarm
Magic Flame
Magic Lock
Marsh Lights
Produce Small Creature
Reinforce Door
Remove Curse
Sounds
Zone of Cold
Zone of Silence

Battle Magic, Level 1:
Aura of Resistance
Cause Animosity
Fireball
Immunity from poison
Steal Mind
Wind Blast

Battle Magic, Level 2:
Cause Panic
Mystic Mist
Smash
Zone of Steadfastness

Battle Magic, Level 3:
Animate Sword
Arrow Invulnerability
Magic Bridge

Battle Magic, Level 4:
Aura of Invulnerability
Blast
Change Allegiance

Elemental Battle Magic, Level 1:
Assault of Stones
Blinding Flash

Possessions:
Magic Lamp--summons a strength 9 air elemental 3 times; the user
must make an unmodified WP roll to control the elemental when it is
summoned.
4 Dragon's teeth
2 Pints dragon blood
8 Locks of Giant Hair
1 piece dragon hide
1 heart of a doppelganger
Amulet of Coal with 3 Fireball Spells
Spell Jewel with Flight Spell
Magic Rope 10 feet long (30 wound points)
Flying Carpet; fights as a 6 foot long section of magic rope, as
well as flying
2 Spell jewels with 7 magic points each, 1 energy ring with 9 magic
points
2 Invisibility potions
2 doses each of manbane, oxleaf and snake-venom; 1 each of blade
and another of ingestive
Wand of Jet, on WP test, reduces magic point expenditure by 1D4
1 Scroll of Summon Fire Elemental (level 6).

The Wizard's Heinous Scheme

The purpose of this section of the adventure is to humiliate and if
possible terrify your players--to show them you're playing
hardball.  It should also infuriate them and make them thirst for
vengeance against Wasmeier, an important motivating factor.  It is
quite possible that Wasmeier will succeed in "killing" the
characters--they'll probably have to burn a fate point to survive. 

First, Wasmeier travels secretly to Altdorf and secures the
services of Teufelsdrockh, who agrees willingly to travel to Hijaz
after seeing some of the artifacts Wasmeier has brought with him. 
He abruptly takes an extended leave of absence from his duties at
Altdorf, throwing his classes into disarray and incurring the ire
of the university officials, who warn him that they cannot
guarantee his position if he leaves, despite his reputation as an
eminent classical scholar.  Characters travelling through Altdorf
about three months after Wolfenburg may hear rumors of this
occurrence.

Wasmeier sends Teufelsdrockh back to Marienburg to await his
coming, and then insinuates himself back into Middenheim through
the offices of Gottfied Goebels, whom he has easily cowed and
abashed into obeying him (note that in our Power Behind the Throne
sessions, Goebels was never exposed or destroyed; if he's been
offed in your campaign, any other generic slimeball will work). 
Wasmeier's plan is to kidnap Katarina Todbringer, use her to lure
the heroes to Marienburg, destroy them at a carefully preprepared
site, and then carry Katarina off to Hizaj where he will thoroughly
debauch and corrupt her with the assistance of the cult of the
Ocher Phallus, and then reinsert her into the Empire at some later
date, either as an agent or, failing that, a profound humiliation
to Emperor Heinrich (the Emperor's half sister prancing around in
black leather with a bullwhip will be a bit much for staid imperial
matrons).  Zeriti will of course be only too happy to have the
beautiful and innocent young Graven as an addition to her
disgusting orgies.

At a variable number of months from the ending of Empire in Flames,
Wasmeier will return to Middenheim with the connivance of Gottfried
Goebbels, who will sneak him into the city during Carnival
disguised as a member of a foreign trade mission.  During the day,
Wasmeier will stay entirely out of sight to avoid recognition by
anyone in the city.

Wasmeier plans to use his Air Elemental to kidnap Katarina, and so
he needs to get close enough to the palace area to be able to
exercise control over it for the duration of his operation.  The
livery stable of the Harvest Goose is close enough, but it's
important that he not be seen while he carries out his nefarious
plan. For what follows, you'll need to refer closely to the map of
Middenheim in City of Chaos.

Very late (about 2 a.m.) on the final night of the Carnival,
Wasmeier will travel to the Harvest Goose in a closed coach with
Gottfried, the coachman, and two bodyguards.  Goebbels and one of
the bodyguards will get out at the Harvest Goose, while the
coachman and the other bodyguard will travel  back to the livery
stable across the road from the restaurant, ostensibly to "watch
the coach," while Wasmeier remains concealed inside with his
magical paraphernalia.  At the stable, the bodyguard double and the
coachman will ply the ostler and watchman with drink that, unknown
to them, is laced with 1 dose of Oxleaf.  Wasmeier will then
proceed to the far side of the livery stable and summon up his Air
Elemental.  This will take a round, Wasmeier making his Will Power
test, and then it will proceed to the southwest window of the
palace, break it in, and then stun Katarina (remains stunned for 46
minutes); this will happen so fast that Keith will be unable to
react to it immediately; after it occurs, follow the schedule:

Round 1--Elemental makes its instability roll; blow 1 seizes
Katarina.  Keith makes initiative roll.  If he fails, he can do
nothing at this point, and the Elemental escapes with Katarina.  If
he succeeds, he can expend a blow to do whatever he wants.  The
Elemental expends its second attack moving back to the window with
Katarina.  Keith expends his second attack.  The Elemental then
expends its third attack launching itself out of the window.  Keith
expends his third attack watching it fly off.  About this time, one
of the Knights Panther comes barging into the room.

The guardsmen manning the fence area will be shocked to hear a
hurricane wind roaring in from the southwest towards the palace;
when they hear the sound of glass breaking in the Gravine's
apartments they will immediately sound the alarm and begin rushing
to the source of the noise.  They will then watch in surprise and
alarm as about five seconds later they see the unconscious form of
the Gravine being carried through the air by some unseen force
towards the Gafsmund-Nordgarten district; two of them will see her
form apparently dropping into the cluster of buildings close to the
fence.  Once the Elemental gets back to the livery stable, it will
drop Katarina off in front of Wasmeier.  He will have unrolled his
flying carpet and will be waiting.  Hopping onto it, he will
immediately fly to the southwest towards the Marienburg road.  A
guardsman at the Gafsmund wall will see the dark form passing
towards the southwest.

With all the yelling and horn blowing, the party in the Gafsmund
district will be rapidly disrupted and everyone will begin pouring
into the street.  Goebbels will at once call for his coach (which
may sound suspicious), and drive home rather erratically, given the
state of his coachman.  Once the story of the Gravine's body
dropping down into the Gafsmund area is related, they will
immediately begin a house to house search of the area and begin
questioning everyone in the area.  The Knight Panther who questions
the ostler and watchman will find them unusually drunk and hard to
arouse, becoming suspicious that they are drugged.  

Allow the investigation to proceed as normal at this point. 
Wasmeier actually plans for the characters to discover that it was
him who took Katarina; all he is anxious to do is to gain several
hours of time to get a headstart.  He's relatively sure they'll
catch Goebbels and that he'll crack under torture or the threat of
torture, telling them of Wasmeier's involvement in Katarina's
abduction and of his whereabouts in Marienburg.  People seeing him
flying in the direction of Marienburg will probably also confirm
this suspicion.  At this point, the characters will undoubtedly
organize some sort of rescue team to go after Katarina.  As I noted
in the introduction, this may consist of some or all of the
original Enemy Within crew, or some of their henchmen.  Leave it up
to them.

Meanwhile, Back in Nuln . . .

At the same time that all this is going on in Middenheim, the
Kaspar double has problems of his own that will arouse his
suspicion that the Purple Hand is again stirring, although he'll be
unable to pin the blame on Wasmeier.

About three months after events in Empire in Flames, Rick will take
up his position as Chancellor in Nuln.  Among the other things that
will occupy him, he will have an appointment with Albrecht
Feinstein, a prominent merchant in Nuln.  Rick should be expecting
nothing unusual in this meeting, but as soon as Feinstein is alone
with him, he will confront Rick with the following speech:

"Goddamnit, Kaspar, what's the matter with you?  Acting as if you
don't recognize me!  What the hell have you been playing at for the
last few months?  First you make off with that inheritance, and
then you help the Sigmarites and bring back that goddamned hammer
and lose us the Civil War, one of the best chances we've had so far
to bring the damn Empire down.  You've obviously gone renegade, but
because you haven't used your knowledge yet to hurt us here (I wish
I could say the same for events in Middenheim--what the hell was
all that about, anyway?), we haven't given up on you completely. We
want to know your price for cutting us in on a slice of the action
here in Nuln.  If you're thinking of betraying us after all, you're
too late--we're prepared for you."

If Rick tries to have the guards seize Albrecht, he will at once
take poison from a hollow in one of his rings and kill himself.  If
Rick lets him go, he will demand that Rick place a written report
of all his actions for the last four years on his desk within 24
hours, explaining everything satisfactorily and begging for
forgiveness, or they'll immediately vacate Nuln and put out a 5000
gold crown contract on his head.

Other encounters that may be of interest--Councillor Oldenhaller of
four years ago is now the head of the Merchant's Guild in Nuln, and
one of Rick's first appointments will be with him, after the one
with Albrecht.  (Note that I first ran these characters in the
Oldenhaller Contract before starting on the Enemy Within!) 
Oldenhaller will not remember Rick.  Rick may want to use his
knowledge of Oldenhaller's illicit dealings in chaos artifacts to
gain advantage over him, or perhaps not.  One of the pieces of
information that will surprise Rick in Oldenhaller's briefing will
be that there is a general shortage of capital in the city that has
been further heightening economic hardships brought on by the Civil
War.  It seems the town's second most prominent merchant, Albrecht
Feinstein, has completely liquidated his business holdings in Nuln
and is preparing to leave the city.  Why this is no one can say--
Feinstein has been very evasive on the subject, saying only that he
feels it is time that he retired from business--surprising as he's
only 38.

If Rick inquires with the banks in Nuln, he will find that they are
unsure where Herr Feinstein's money has gone--it has certainly not
been deposited with them.  From this, they are inferring that it
must have been transferred out of Nuln to some other repository. 
If Rick uses his influence, he will eventually discover after about
a month that it was transferred first to Altdorf and then about a
week later to Marienburg.

The remaining Purple Hand Inner Council member in Nuln is a
prominent lawyer named Heinrich Schwermut.  He has sold his
practice and moved out of the city.

A final meeting of interest will be with Hans Delbruck, a sleazy
lawyer who represents the Nuln thieve's guild in most of its
outside dealings.  He will be anxious to strike up a good working
relationship with Rick, and will be able to provide various useful
tidbits of information to him.  If asked about the contract,
Delbruck will, in return for certain concessions, be willing to
ensure that no Nuln assassin will take it up; for really valuable
assistance, he will offer the protection of the thieves guild to
Rick.  He will also be able to discover the terms of the contract--
proof of the job to be brought in person to the proprietor of the
Rat's Den in Marienburg; payment forthcoming.  At this point, he'll
probably either contact Keith or go to see him himself; all this
information should further the impression that something dark and
chaotic is brewing.  It should also still further point the way to
Marienburg, and serve to bring the adventurers back together.

Wasmeier's Fiendish Scheme

After a period of about 12-24 hours, the players will probably have
organized themselves and be ready to pursue Wasmeier.  With his
commanding lead (not to mention his ability to fly much of the way)
he should stay well ahead of the characters.  After several days
travel, they'll arrive in Marienburg.

Once they get there, there are a variety of ways they may seek to
discover Wasmeier's whereabouts.  The powerful characters may well
try to use their influential positions to force the authorities to
help.  They'll run into some difficulty here, however:  one, the
Marienburg burghers are touchy about their "independence" of the
Empire, and a bunch of imperial officials throwing their weight
around is likely to provoke resistance.  The other problem is that
they're only newly established in their positions of authority and
haven't done much networking yet, so the Marienburgers may not be
all that happy to help them.

If they're polite and not obnoxious though, or if they proceed
through unofficial channels (Thieve's Guild, etc.), they'll
relatively quickly discover a new merchant's compound that's been
set up just a few months ago on one of the marshy islands out in
the harbor.  The owner is one Rufus Vitarna (nee Albrecht
Feinstein, late of Nuln), and he's a funny customer.  He sort of
dropped into town one day and the next was running an enormously
profitable import-export business with Araby; no one knows where he
got his capital, where he comes from, who his contacts are.  He
does, however, pay his merchant guild dues on time and keeps his
lawn cut; any attempts by the powerful characters to get Marienburg
officials to raid the compound will end in failure before the usual
Marienburg "live and let make money" attitude.
The characters will probably figure out fairly quickly that this is
where Wasmeier is; drop a few subtle hints however you wish.  This
will probably lead to a daring plan to raid the island and free
Katarina; you may wish to impress on them the idea that time is
wasting away by giving the information that a new voyage to Araby
is planned by the sinister merchants "very soon."

Handle the raid however you wish.  The guards will not be privy to
Wasmeier's plan to trap the adventurers and so they'll be quite
convincing if caught and questioned about doings in the merchant
compound.  Wasmeier will let them "rescue" Katarina, but only to
use her as part of his trap.

Wasmeier will have already used the doppelganger heart to
temporarily change Katarina's allegiance; he'll then use her to
lure them into a specially constructed dungeon room 20 x 20', with
four barred windows 10' off the ground.  He will first summon a
fire elemental to attack the characters, then try to destroy them
with spells as they are engaged with the monster.  He will probably
be successful, but will leave as soon as the battle is over and let
his henchmen degrade the bodies of his former foes by beheading
them and sending their heads to Heinrich, while he boards ship for
Araby along with Katarina and Teufelsdrockh.  In spite of his evil
nature, he is a gentleman and doesn't revel in grisly carnage for
its own sake.  The heroes--only apparently dead, but miraculously
survived:  have them all burn some of those fate points accumulated
in the Enemy Within campaign--will come to in the nick of time and
kill or drive off the henchmen.  But they will be too late to stop
the ship with Wasmeier from sailing.  They'll then spend a while
buying, begging or borrowing a ship to sail them to Araby:  they
should be so pissed at Wasmeier (and you) by this time that they'll
do ANYTHING to get to him.  You can either handle the voyage as an
Errol Flynn adventure on its own, or simply skip over it and say
they arrive at Salapa without much incident.

Something's Rotten in Salapa

When they get to Salapa, the characters will find a city with a lot
of problems.  They'll quickly learn from asking around (note that
you may well wish to play up the language barrier here--finding a
good, reliable interpreter can be an adventure in itself, not to
mention all the amusing problems that can come from botched
translation) that the current Sultan, Al Firouk al Hijaz, is a
sotted fool who has come completely under the influence of one of
his many concubines, Zeriti, a beautiful, savage woman from a
country far to the south of Hijaz.  Rumor has it that she is a
witch, and that she's used her evil powers to completely besot the
Sultan.  He dismissed all of the wiser and more religiously devout
members of his court, including his formerly beloved brother and
adviser Farouk, and replaced them with creatures of Zeriti's.  It
is widely reported that she holds disgusting orgies in the palace
now that would shock the moral sensibilities of any good follower
of the Prophet.  What is even worse, she has formed close relations
with certain of the foreign infidel merchants, especially one Vas-
Mar, making some sort of political alliance with them, for god only
knows what evil and godless purpose.  The people of the city are
for the most part unhappy about these events, but unwilling and
unable at the moment to do much about them.

It is fairly well known in the city that Vas-Mar has taken up
residence somewhere in the interior, and that caravans depart from
the city at least once a month to bring supplies to him at his
stronghold in the mountains.  It is also well known that the
Sultan's exiled brother Farouk has gained some sort of religious
and political influence with the bedouin tribes of the interior,
and that they've been raiding the caravans, or trying to.  The
caravans are thus now heavily guarded.

The characters should be able to discover relatively quickly that
the Sultan has taken a new concubine into his harem--"she who has
hair like the blazing sunset on the desert," and this will lead
them first to the palace and a confrontation with Zeriti.  Play
this up however you wish--Zeriti is small potatoes compared
magically to Wasmeier, but she's got plenty of armed help with her
and she should make a tough fight.  Play up the "perils of Pauline"
angle with Katarina; have her rescued just as her virtue is tried
in a terrible orgy, etc.  Get as blue as you're comfortable with.

Once Katarina is rescued, most of the characters will still want to
go after Wasmeier for revenge, as well as to stop whatever chaotic
schemes he's hatching in the desert.  My people linked up with the
Farouk's Mujahedin bedouins in the desert and coordinated their
attack on Wasmeier's compound with them.  The bedouins gave a
diversion while they sneaked in to confront Wasmeier.  

The final confrontation should be staged just as Wasmeier and
Teufelsdrock turn on the Sssiss-tk.  I borrowed my description of
the Sssiss-tk from the final episode of the Elric books, modeling
it after the multifaceted glowing machine that transports Elric to
Tanelorn.  Basically, once it's turned on, you see the various
dimension's it's tuned to shifting over the facets of the machine;
you travel to one by touching your open palm to the facet as the
dimension perspective shifts by.  I also had it making all sorts of
weird noises--a humming mixed with thousands of whispering voices
that seem to be inside your head, not outside of it--such that
anyone seeing it had to make a cool test or gain an insanity point.

Wasmeier should make a _very_ tough fight of it:  remember that
he's smart, and play him as you would if he were your own player
character.  In the final confrontation as I ran it, he was finally
driven to summon up the Air Elemental again, but he lost control of
it and it attacked and killed Teufelsdrock (intellectual justice,
if not poetic).  In the terrible battle that followed Wasmeier
actually managed to get away by using the Sssiss-tk to escape to
another dimension just as the hero character aimed a killing blow
at him.  I thought of another angle I could have played if I'd
thought of it at the time:  have the character warp with Wasmeier
into a dimension where the Slann are still dominant, then have them
force the two to fight out a duel a la some old Star Trek or
Blake's Seven episode.

Anyhow, at the end of the day, justice will of course prevail and
the characters, having disposed of Zeriti and Wasmeier, will be
gratefully returned home by Farouk and his bedouins, thankful for
their assistance in driving out the foreign devils.  But if
Wasmeier is still out there, he may come back again  . . 
