From: "Stephen K. Pogue" <skpogue@prairienet.org>
To: wfrp@gojira.monsta.com
Subject: WFRP: The Earth Shook

The following is an adventure idea for those interested in a bit
of a dungeon crawl that does not involve an ancient Dwarven tomb.

Background:  During the night the characters feel the earth buckle
and shake beneath them.  If they are camping out a couple of old
trees may fall nearby.  It is very disconcerting to all of the
party, but especially Dwarven characters because they realize
there has been a large earth quake.

As the party continues their travels they will hear tales of
raiding creatures which have never been seen before.  Dwarves
and characters with mining may be able to surmise that the
party is probably traveling closer to the epicenter of the
earth quake.

When the party reaches the next village they will see a scene of 
devastation.  Many of the huts have been destroyed, and some of
the villagers are packing up to leave.  

In my campaign the party was traveling to meet one of the
character's relatives who was killed by the raiders.  The
village's elders could raise a small reward to have the party
get rid of the raiders.  The party could be traveling to meet a
powerful tutor, who will train them in exchange for getting rid
of the raiders.  Individual G.M.s will have to determine how
to motivate their players.

What Happened:  The Earth quake felt by the party resulted in
a large chasm in the foothills.  This chasm bisected an ancient
tunnel system used by (lizardmen, trogs and carnivorous snappers
in my campaign), but you can use any underworld nasties that amuse
you.  These nasties were marooned in this section of tunnels due
to numerous cave-ins caused by the quake.  Their only means of
sustenance left was raiding the surface under cover of the
night.

Note:  This adventure could be pure hell for a follower of
Grugni due to the number of cave-ins.  If you are feeling kind
you could announce that the tunnels are not of Dwarven origin
and not worth saving.

I would not suggest too many dungeon crawls, they are far too
lethal, however if your players are like mine it could satisfy
some blood lust.

Keith Pogue


