From: Michael Andersen <ia9501@knold.ballehs.dk>
Subject: Encounter: Ernst Himmelmann's arena of exotic beasts

Hi people here is a little encounter I've created some days ago.

ERNST HIMMELMANN'S ARENA OF EXOTIC BEASTS
-----------------------------------------
Are your players looking for a real fight? Do they find Minotaur fights at the 
Middenheim festival boring? Well, why disappoint them, here is a way to let 
the players enter the combat of their lifetime - maybe also loosing their life 
in the progress.

Ernst Himmelmann is a 45 years old human who has specialized himself in a very 
special and, in most areas, very illegal business. Ernst and a couple of 
trusted people are traveling the world, often to destinations where great 
festivals are held.
Finding Ernst is an adventure in its own right. Players might overhear some 
slight rumour which reveals something about furious combats and much money. 
Following up the rumour might reveal a little more. The players can at last 
be able to contact Ernst (via one of his agents) after having talked to one 
of the surviving combatants (likely to be a trollslayer or other equally 
fighters) or the city's underground society - which often collect guild money 
from Ernst.
When the players have convinced Ersnt (via his agent) of the sincerity of 
fighting they can get audience with Ernst Himmelmann. The PCs will now be 
into this so deep that it will too late to back out.
At the audience the PC, who wish to fight, should present his request for the 
fight (typically which monster/creature and conditions). Ernst will ask 
questions about the PC's earlier careers, what he is doing now and so on, to 
determine fighting experience (remember that Ernst is very capable of this 
with his years of experience).
At last Ernst will present the player with the odds and the amount to pay for 
the fight to take place. This amount depends on whether Ernst has the 
requested creature in stock (players can ask about which creatures is 
currently available), or if he has to pay from the black market or dispatch 
his own hunters (expensive!!!!). The PCs will have to own a lot of money, even 
more if they want to bet on their odds and be able to make money out of the 
combat.
The odds depends on the players fighting experience as determined by herr 
Oberwald and Ernst. Odds range from 2:1 - a trollslayer versus a troll to 
100:1 a Halfling something against an adult Dragon.
Ernst is a reasonable man and if the PC is able to pay for the combat itself, 
but is unable to bet money on the combat(and makes a successful Fel test), 
Ernst will present the player with a loan, to be put in the bet, large enough 
to make the players efforts worth the fight. This loan will require a sponsor 
for the player, in case he should die in the combat.
An adventure idea could be introduced when a player are unable to pay back 
their loan (typically a sponsor!). Ernst present the player with an 
alternative: To get an specific exotic creature for his arena.
Combats against creatures which are available in Ernsts stock will take 
2-5 days to be arranged, while creatures not in stock will take up to a year 
to arrange depending on the rarity of the creature.
As an example of prices a fight against a Dragon in stock will cost 500 GC 
while the prices is multiplied by 20 for a creature not in stock - 10.000 
GC. The dead creature is kept by Ernst, as he has many contacts interested in 
the skins and internal organs
When the fight is agreed the player will have to make a convincing suicide 
note (in case the player should loose the fight), the method of suicide, 
should it be appropriate is determined by Ernst (usually the clawed body is 
hurled from a high cliff, to totally destroy the body).
If Ernst where to sell one of his creatures without a fight (happens 
occasionally as wizards needs ingredients) the price will be multiplied by 5.
The number of employees depends heavily upon the number of creatures in stock, 
but Ernst always ensure to have the most trusted people in his staff. The 
creatures are kept in wagons usually away from the city (because its often 
impossible to smuggle all of them through the gates). The creatures aren't 
treated well and is kept in too small cages. This treatment of the creatures 
have gotten Ernst very unpopular within a travelling group of Beastfriends. 
Ernst, however, has so many enemies that he can't be bothered, and would 
probably have them wiped out if they get to annoying.
The players should be warned. We are talking big money, and Ernst will not 
take it lightly to be bothered with the PCs showing up, getting a lot of 
information, and then leave with the 'Sorry! To expensive'. Ernst has too 
much to loose and this kind of behaviour is testing his temperament. The PCs 
could very well get a nightly visit by members of the nearest assassin guild.
Neutral aligned creatures are usually irritated into a frenzy state before 
entering combat (the good old string around a male creatures testicles 
always works)

Creatures in stock:	Chance	Amount	Price
Dragon			05%	1	500
Troll			45%	1	80
Basilisk		10%	1	200
Chimera			15%	1	150
Griffon			15%	1	125
Harpy			25%	1D3	50
Hydra			15%	1	250
Jabberwock		20%	1	225
Manticore		15%	1	250
Giant spider		40%	1	100
Giant Scorpion		40%	1	100
Wyvern			20%	1	200
Fimir			45%	1D3	50
Dragon Ogre		10%	1	400
Mutant			75%	1D6	50
Unspeakable thing 
	(Chaos Spawn)	55%	1D3	90
Minotaur		45%	1	70
Treeman *		05%	1	500
Zoats (might be 
	shamans)*	05%	1	500
Chaos Hounds		20%	1D3	150
Elephant or Mammoth	10%	1	450
Cold one Warhound	05%	1	400
Cold one		05%	1	400
Slann (typically 
	inexperienced)**02%	1	1000
Coatl			02%	1	1200
Crocodile (best odds 
	in waterfights)	10%	1	500
Jaguar (hunts can be arranged)	10%	1	500
Sabre Tooth tiger (see above)	10%	1	500
Troglodyte		10%	1	500

*): this can be a nasty experience for players not of evil and chaotic 
    alignment. Slaying the creature while looking into its innocent eyes as it 
    dies. Ernst has no opinion wether a creature is good or evil, if its exotic 
    it can be used!
**): The fighting conditions will normally be unarmed or even and with poor 
    odds. This is just for the chance to fight a rare but weak creature.

Ernst Himmelmann, ex.-Pitfighter ex.-Footpad: Slaver. And Outlaw Chief

M WS BS S T  W  I A Dex Ld Int Cl WP Fel
4 53 58 6 6 11 54 3  46 68  47 52 37  25
Skills: Disarm, Dodge Blow, Specialist Weapon - Fist - Flail - Parrying - 
	Two handed - Whip - Net, Strike Mighty Blow, Strike to Injure, 
	Very Strong, Silent move - Urban - Rural, Strike to Stun, Drive Cart, 
	Ride - Horse, Speak Kislevite, Follow Trails, Identify Plants, 
	Secret Language - Battle, Secret Language - Thief, Evaluate
Trappings: Magick Sword (Sleep - Hit creature must pass a WP or fall into 
	sleep, +2 D), Sleeved mail shirt, Mail coif, Crossbow, Knife, Whip, 
	Net, Lots of money, Contacts with Assassin and Thieves guild(valuable!
	Often used when loans aren't paid), etc.

3 Beast Hunters

M WS BS S T  W  I A Dex Ld Int Cl WP Fel
4 51 55 4 5 10 54 1  36 38  47 55 41  26

Skills: Set traps - for big creatures, Follow Trail, Silent move - Rural, 
	Concealment - Rural, Prepare Poisons, Specialist weapon - Lasso - Net, 
	Strike to Stun, Marksmanship
Trappings: Crossbows, Net, 20' Rope, manacles/ collars/ chains, Sleeping drug 
	for giant creatures (works as manbane - etc., on humanoids), Sword, 
	Dagger, Shield, Sleeved mail shirt, helmet.

Handlers etc.

M WS BS S T W  I A Dex Ld Int Cl WP Fel
4 43 38 4 5 9 52 1  36 36  37 42 37  29

Skills: Animal care (or beast care), Dodge blow, specialist weapon - Whip, 
	Beast knowledge (knowledge of special abilities and so on - in order 
	to survive)
Trappings: Hand weapon, Whip, Sleeved mail shirt, mail coif, other items as 
	fit.

Reiner Oberwald, Advisor - Auditor - Scribe
Reiner is Ernst Advisor and Auditor. He is able to check for magic weapons, 
	which are only allowed if agreed on, and enchantments etc.

M WS BS S T W  I A Dex Ld Int Cl WP Fel
4 43 38 3 3 7 64 1  46 63  48 42 67  39
Skills: Arcane Language - Magick, Read/Write, Secret Language - Classical, 
	Astronomy, Cartography, History, Identify Plants, Linguistics, 
	Magic sense, Numismatics, Super numerate, Rune lore, Speak Arabian - 
	Kislevite, Identify Magical artefacts.
Trappings: Writing equipment, Dagger, Ring of adamantine (T=7), Potion of 
	invisibility.

------------------------------------------------------
Mike says: Don't be afraid to annihilate your players, 
they really deserves it!
------------------------------------------------------

Beastiary
---------
Chaos Hound
M WS BS S T  W I  A Dex Ld Int Cl WP Fel
6 41 00 4 4 11 40 2  -- 24  14 24 24  10
Alignment: Chaos
Attributes: D6-4
Chaos hounds can be trained for war, but can never be trained to become 
faithful. They tend to forget alliance during combat.

Coatl
The Coatl, or Flying Serpent, is a strange, Lustrian creature that figures in 
the legends of the Slann.  The Slann associate the creature with the God 
Quetzalcoatl, and treat it as a sacred animal. Coatl are intelligent 
creatures, and may be magical.  They speak their own sibilant language.

Physique. Adults can reach 20' in length. They resemble large snakes, with the 
head of a dragon and feathered wings. Sometimes their whole body can be 
covered in feathers. The Coatl can shed and regrow plumage in any color it 
chooses.

World Distribution: Coatl live in the tropical rain forests of Lustria. 
They avoid contact with other races.

Profile:
M WS BS S T  W  I A Dex Ld Int Cl WP Fel
2 57  0 4 5 21 60 3   0 43  43 43 43  29

Special Rules. Bite attacks. Coatl are venomous. Fly as swoopers, the movement 
allowance given is for ground movement only. Coatl can be wizards- work out 
the profiles.  Cause fear in living creatures under 10'.

Cold one Warhound

Cold Ones are the largest members of the lizard race. They are related to 
Lizardmen and Troglodytes, but are far more brutal and stupid than even the 
most stupid Troglodyte. Cold One warhounds are the larger hunting animals of 
the Cold one race. They are trained (as best as they can!) and used by 
Lizardmen, and Slann as beasts of war.

Physique.  Cold One warhounds are ugly, alligator-like animals with a coarse, 
scaly skin and menacing pointed teeths. They respond well to the tutelage of 
Slann or Lizardmen handlers, but cannot be tamed  warm-blooded races.

World Distribution: Native to underground caverns of the New World and 
Lustria.

Profile:
M WS BS S T W  I A Dex Ld Int Cl WP Fel
6 33  0 3 3 7 26 2   0 10  14 66 66   -

Special Rules:
The Cold one Warhound's thick scales provides it with 2 AP on all body 
locations.
Cold one warhounds have a +1 modifier to damage because of their powerful jaws 
and muscles.
Cold one warhounds  are Subject to stupidity (if lead, any test is on the 
handlers characteristics), until they are involved in hand to hand combat, 
after which they can't be forced to leave combat.  Unlike Cold Ones the 
Warhounds are very predatory and are able to attack other creatures of the 
lizard race. They are not affected by smell from other lizards. Only 
cold-blooded creatures may be able to use the Cold one warhounds as beasts of 
war. This include Lizardmen and Slann (Slann are not Repitles!). 
The stench of a Cold one warhounds is so strong that non-Lizards in hand to 
hand combat suffers a -10 to hit.
Cold one warhounds vision isn't very good, they navigate by smell instead. 
They can trace most creatures up to 30 yards away. This range is increased 
with 5 yards for every wound the creature has suffered. As a rule of thumb you 
should allow a chance for the warhounds to react on wounded creatures (and 
moving towards it). There is a additional 10% chance for each wound the 
creature has suffered.

Cold Ones 
 
Cold Ones are the largest members of the lizard race. They are related to 
Lizardmen and Troglodytes, but are far more brutal and stupid than even the 
most stupid Troglodyte. Cold Ones can be ridden, and are used by Dark Elves, 
Amazons, Lizardmen, and Slann as riding beasts.

Physique.  Cold Ones are large monsters, well over 10'.  They either knuckle 
walk or walk on their hind legs using their tails for balance at speed. The 
head is large with a gaping mouth studded with sharp teeth.

World Distribution: Native to underground caverns of the New World and Lustria.

Profile:
M WS BS S T  W  I A Dex Ld Int Cl WP Fel
8 33  0 4 4 17 20 2   0 10  14 66 66   -

Special Rules:
The Cold ones thick scales provides it with 1 AP on all body locations.
Cold ones have a +1 modifier to damage because of their powerful jaws and 
muscles.
Cold ones cause fear in creatures less than 10 feet tall.
Cold ones are Subject to stupidity (if ridden any test is on the rider's 
characteristics), until they are involved in hand to hand combat, after which 
they can't be forced to leave combat.  Cold Ones will never attack other 
creatures of the lizard race because they recognize the smell produces by them 
(and they are not affected by it either). Only cold-blooded creatures may 
normally be able to use the Cold ones as riding animals. This include Lizardmen 
and Slann (Slann are not Repitles!). The exception is Dark elves! Dark elves 
are able to ride Cold Ones by smothering themselves in the scent of 
Troglodytes. This is obtained by wearing Troglodyte skins or by using an 
extract of their odour. In order to do this, however, the riders must inhale 
special chemicals to burn out their nasal membranes and destroy their sense of 
smell and taste.
The stench of a Cold one is so strong that non-Lizards in hand to hand combat 
suffers a -10 to hit.

Crocodile

Profile:
M WS BS S T  W  I A Dex Ld Int Cl WP Fel
* 33  0 4 4 15 26 1   0 10  14 66 66  -
*: 6 in water and 3 on land

Special rules
The thick leathery Crocodile skin adds 1 AP on all body locations.
Crocodiles have a +1 modifier to damage because of their powerful jaws and 
muscles.
 
Elephant or Mammoth
M WS BS S T  W  I  A   Dex Ld Int Cl WP Fel
8 33 00 8 8 35 30 2/1*  -- 29  14 29 29  16

Elephants and Mammoths in the warhammer world are just like the elephants from 
our world (mammoths are just much more hairier) except that they are larger!!!!

Alignment: Neutral

Mammoth's and elephants causes fear (-10 to test) in creatures under 10', when 
they trample into combat.
*):Mammoth's and elephants have two stomp attacks (or two fangs) and one 
special trunk attack which can only be used upon one creature in the front 
which must be under 10' tall. A successful hit indicates that the victim is 
lifted up and thrown against any other opponents (causing a S5 hit on the 
victim and S3 on other opponents hit - D6 in a group) or if possible into a 
heavy obstacle (causing a S5 to 8 hit depending on the type of obstacle). A 
thrown victim must pass a Dex test on impact to hold on to his handheld 
equipments. Instead of throwing, the mammoth can also grab hold of its victim 
as it is lifted up into the air. This is only done if there isn't anybody 
around to throw the bastard against. This follows the wrestling rules, but the 
victim may choose to use Dex instead of Strength. Since this would mean that 
the elephant wins, you should check if weapon arm is pinned (se lasso rules). 
If it isn't then a damaging hit to the elephants trunk will make it drop its 
victim (2-3 yards fall).
A killed mammoth or elephant will fall to a random side. Any creature in the 
path must pass an I test to jump away or receive a S 10 hit on his body as the 
creature fall upon him.
If elephants are well treated (all times!) they can be trained to be loyal 
towards their master (but can quickly change if not treated well).

Jaguar

The Jaguar is one of the Lustrian big-cats; others include animals such as the 
Cougar. They are very similar and the same profile can be used for both, and 
for similarly sized big-cats from the South Lands and Cathay. The Lustrian 
Jaguar is a large animal, larger than any living big-cat from our own world. 
They cannot be ridden, but if captured young and carefully hand-reared they 
can be kept as pets, guards, or animals of war. The Amazons are particularly 
skilled at this, and the Jaguar has become companion animal to the Amazonian 
High Priestesses.

Physique. Jaguars are large feline creatures, a orange/brown or sand colored 
fur marked in black or dark brown spots or broken spots.  All black, or 
melanic, animals sometimes appear, and are highly valued by the Amazons. 
They are under 10' - usually 6' long.

World Distribution: Jaguars live in the jungles of Lustria and the New World.
Cougars live throughout the New World and Lustria.

Profile:
M WS BS S T W  I  A   Dex Ld Int Cl WP Fel
9 41  0 4 3 6 30 3(5)   0 10  14 43 43   -

Special Rules.  Bite and claws attack.  If attack from ambush and with 
surprise all four claws and bite attack simultaneously. Tame animals must 
have a handler within 20', and will test reaction on handler's characteristics.

Sabre-Toothed Tiger 

A remnant of the prehistoric inhabitants of Lustria, the Sabre-toothed tiger is 
still found deep in the jungles of that lush continent.  The Slann prize the 
tiger as a fighting animal.

Physique.  Sabre-toothed tigers are amongst the largest cat s in all the 
world, often standing more than six feet at the shoulder. They are powerfully 
muscled creatures, capable of moving quickly and delivering mighty blows with 
their front paws.  The most distinctive features of these tigers are their 
overgrown canine teeth. Up to nine inches long, these teeth hang over the 
tiger's bottom lip in a fearsome ivory curve.  These teeth can inflict the 
most horrendous damage as they rip through the flesh of the tiger's prey.

World Distribution: Deep in the jungles of Lustria and the New World.

Profile:
M WS BS S    T  W  I A Dex Ld Int Cl WP Fel
6 41  0 5(7) 4 11 40 3   0 14  14 43 43   -

Special Rules. Two claws and one bite attack. Bite attack is at a Strength of 
7 while claws are at S5.
