From: LXT510 <LXT510@novell3.bham.ac.uk>
Date: Mon, 22 Apr 1996 12:44:25 GMT
Subject: wfrp scenario

A small scenario for WFRP with scope for further fun!
Copyright Luke Twigger for use in GMs home campaigns only.
Any references to Games Workshop products/terms/trademarks are used without permission -
please refer to rulebooks for details of skills, tests, etc (by saying that I hope that
they won't object to me posting this!)

GIANT SLAYERS!
**************

This is best used when the PCs are in a vaguely remote area eg Grey Mountains where it is
possible for a giant to wander freely!

The PCs hear rumours of a giant roaming around in the nearby mountains. Successful Gossip
tests (at +20% because it's the latest news) give the following info:

1) a party of prospectors were found beaten to a pulp
2) the mayor is offering a reward of 500GC (change this if you want to reward your PCs more
   or less than I did!)
3) the village inhabitants are very worried and might move away
4) there are not many applicants for the post of 'giant slayer' yet - none in fact!
5) a successful giant slayer will gain a lot of glory, fame, etc.

Assuming the PCs are interested (if not then increase the money or have them meet the giant
anyway on their next trip!) then they can easily get in contact with the mayor and he will
confirm that they are the only applicants so far. Later that day while planning their hunt
or buying kit etc they are approached by Sebastian Geheimnis (see below) who says that he'd
like to join in the hunt if they'll have him, splitting the reward fairly. The PCs will
hopefully agree (if not, again use your imagination eg have him conveniently walking by when
the giant attacks). The PCs were given a simple map showing the prospectors camp (see rumour
1) and they will have to track the giant from there.

The mountains are a very rough area where it is easy to get lost. It will take 8 hours to
reach the prospectors camp and a further 6D6 hours to find the giant. Maybe throw in some
wandering monsters to keep them on their toes. The camp has been smashed totally and there
is nothing of any value.

Giant
M 6
WS 33
BS 25
S 7
T 7
W 36
I 20
A 5
DEX 14
LD 24
INT 14
CL 24
WP 24
FEL 14

Characters amy attempt to dodge the giant's blows by testing against half I - characters
with Dodge Blow test against one and a half times I (I put this rule in because
otherwise one unlucky hit could cream an adventurer straight away!).

Arrange it so that the fight with the giant takes place in the early evening (have Sebastian
appear if necessary - he might have followed the PCs and saves one of their lives at a
critical moment). NB Don't let the PCs leave all the giant slaying to Sebastian, have him
knocked out if necessary.

When the PCs wake up in the morning they find Sebastian gone, taking the giant's head with
him (if a PC was on guard then they fall asleep or something). They will have to make their
own way back through the mountains (maybe with wandering monsters...) :

Make an Int test for each PC every hour (+10 Follow Trail, +20 Orientation, +10 Cartography)
If all PCs fail then they take a wrong turn and waste an hour.

When (if?!) they get back to the village they find that Sebastian has returned and claimed
the reward in their absence - if they complain no one will believe them as Sebastian
returned hours ago and has the head to prove it. The PCs have 2 ways of geting even:

1) Talk - Sebastian will gladly tell them that all he wanted was the glory - he was on the
          bad side of his family but now they think he is a hero. He asks them to keep it a
          secret (and may kill them if they tell people) and will give them the whole
          reward (and maybe a bit more) to keep them happy.
2) Violence - Sebastian is quite a fighter. Any sneaky attacks at night etc will result in
              him fighting to kill. He will accept any challenge and will fight a public
              duel to redeem his honour - any weapons, any armour - one at a time or all at
              once!

Sebastian Geheimnis
Human, Male, Neutral, 23 years old, 6'1", 180lbs, Black Hair, Scarred Face, 2 Fate Points
Duellist (ex Noble)

Sebastian has fallen out with his family who want him to take up a proper job instead of
wandering around fighting duels. After killing the giant they think him a hero and take
him back with open arms.

M 5
WS 62
BS 60
S 5
T 7
W 9
I 52
A 2
DEX 46
LD 53
INT 56
CL 63
WP 43
FEL 42

Skills:
Read/Write
Excellent Vision
Acute Hearing
Lightning Reflexes
Blather
Charm
Wit
Etiquette
Heraldry
Ride - Horse
Gamble
Public Speaking
Consume Alcohol
Specialist Weapon - Fencing Sword
Musicianship - Wind Instruments
Disarm
Dodge Blow
Marksmanship
Specialist Weapon - Pistol
Strike Mighty Blow
Strike To Injure
Strike To Stun

Trappings:
Expensive Clothes
Horse
Dagger (72/62/4/42)
Fencing Sword (82/62/5/62)
Flute
2 Pistols (BS80, 8/16/50, S3)


Experience Points (alter if you like)

Taking the job = 10 pts
Teaming up with Sebastian voluntarily = 20 pts
Killing the giant = 250 pts divided between all who actively helped
Finding way back to village = 40 pts (-5 per wasted hour)
Settling with Sebastain by talking = 100 pts (this is quite unlikely in my experience!)
Fighting Sebastian in a duel = 25 pts
Beating Sebastian in a duel = 300 pts divided between all who actively helped

Notes - I have made Sebastain relatively hard to beat and the Experince reflects this.
I reward thinking more than simple fighting but change this if your players will object!

If they talk to Sebastian they will also ahve an ally for the future who may help them out
occasionally, put work their way, introduce them to eligible nobles etc. Continue if
wanted (have him turn up again in few months time out of favour again!)
