From: unihead@magna.com.au (Peter Gifford)
Subject: PBtT scenario add-on. Spoilers.

Here's a second messy, unfinished scenario piece by Peter Gifford. While
playing Power Behind the Throne, my players forced me into several new
avenues by their weird and wonderful role playing inventiveness. As a
result, the character of Gotthard Goebbels (aka Gotthard von Wittgenstein)
and his involvement in the Cult of the Jade Sceptre got a lot more
attention than he is given in the book. So at the suggestion of the writers
(PBtT p63), I wove a subplot around him and the mysterious death (well, NOW
it's mysterious) of the Graf's second wife, the Duchess Anika-Elise Nikse.
These descriptions are intended to be additions/replacements to the room
descriptions in The Restless Dead adventure 'The Haunting Horror', which
was an excellent basis and inspiration for this chaos-infested cultist
house. Full credit to its writers ... these are extra ideas only to fit the
adventure into this expanded scenario for PBtT.

PS This article includes references to drug use, violence and contains sex
scenes. It is not intended for minors. This is Slaanesh, after all.

REINER HAARIGFLEISHER'S TOWN HOUSE  15 SCHREIBER STRASSE, ULRICSMUND

THE NEW VENUE

Having escaped the imprisonment of Adolphus Kuftsos, Haarigfleisher hastily
reorganises the Slaanesh cult meeting to take place at his town house in
Ulricsmund. However this night he, Goebbels and the other cultists have
gone too far; they accidentally summon three Daemonettes of Slaanesh, one
of which, Foul Crabstinger, was once Anike-Elise Nikse, second wife of the
Graf and former Cult leader. The house slips into a crack between this
world and the warp, and gibbering Chaos Spawn infest it.

SPECIAL RULES

Entering the House
Characters must pass a Cool test to enter the house. If they fail they may
enter, but not without breaking into a sweat and feeling that 'something is
horribly wrong'. Characters who pass the test may enter normally.

'Wandering' Encounters
Slaanesh cultists and Chaos Beasties may be found wandering the house if
the atmosphere calls for it. The number of Chaos Spawn is effectively
limitless.
Sample Cultist Encounters
        - violently insane; attacks with teeth and nails.
        - young woman, very attractive; blank stare, asking for 'Daddy'
who's very rich and has lots of friends and will solve everything.
        - cultist(s) being raped by Chaos Spawn.
        - cultist who runs up to the party, shows them the eyes in his
palms, then runs away laughing.
        - dead, mutilated cultists (treat as zombies).
        - cultists attached to floor or halfway through walls.

Leaving the House
Once the Daemonettes are summoned (ie before the PCs arrive), no one can
leave the house until they are destroyed. However the house will let anyone
in - it's a one-way ticket. Windows and doors cannot be opened or broken
down. Any adventurers looking out of the (shuttered) windows will get a
glimpse of warpstuff - make a Terror test for the character.

THE CULTISTS

=46ITTING YOUR PLAYERS IN ... MWHAHAHAH
This all started when one of my players decided to visit the most decadent
joint in town in a bit to discover information about chaos cults in town.
The letter they found in the castle in DotR, signed Gotthard von
Wittgenstein, was a lead they didn't intend dropping. The PC, on local
advice, went to the 'Templar's Downfall', where he couldn't get in due to
his 'conservative' appearance. Dressed and made-up outrageously with a
little help from from the local ladies of the night he went back, buying
some Stardust (a local drug) off a pusher in an alley on the way. In the
Downfall he met the gay bright young things of Middenheim, got extremely
stoned and met one Reiner, who invited him to a 'meeting of friends' on the
15th. Beginning to hallucinate he ran outside, threw up and collapsed in an
alley. Enough personal details. I also worked in Adolphus Kuftsos, the
bounty hunter from TEW - he was on the trail of the Cult, had insinuated
himself into it, and made a surprise appearance to rescue the players from
certain death at the end of this scenario ... unfortunately copping a
'Fleshy Curse' spell as his reward. With the help of an information system
of street urchins, the PCs linked Gotthard with Reiner. They confirmed
Gotthard's real identity by getting a sample of his handwriting at the
Royal Garden Party and checking it with the letter ... and the rest is
history ...

GOTTHARD GOEBBELS
After Anike-Elise Nikse's (daughter of the Baron von Nordland and second
wife of Graf Boris, age only 23) 'recall into the swirling void' 6 months
ago, her proteg=E9 Goebbels has taken over as the Master of Ceremonies of th=
e
Jade Sceptre. This guy is very sick, though somewhat childish in his
decadence, dropping his ruthless, criminal qualities and becoming his true
self; a bootlicking, snivelling, decadent sicko. Hey, he came from bad
stock (see Death on the Reik).
REINER HAARIGFLEISHER
Haarigfleisher attempts to dabble in magic but is too caught up in more
earthly pleasures to be anything of a success in it. His foppishness is all
the more disgusting becuse of his large build and the coarse black hair
which runs rampant all over him. Haarigfleisher is a member of the idle
nouveau rich, and maintains this house to indulge his bizarre desires and
his group of friends. Next to Goebbels, he is the most decadent of the
group.
COMMON CULTISTS
All of the cultists, male and female, wear rainbow-coloured robes (some of
the more daring have the symbol of Slaanesh on them) which expose their
right breasts; heavy, garish make-up in clashing colours on their faces and
bodies; and in some cases outrageously grinning Carnival masks. Those that
are still close to sane betray a variety of personalities, from thoroughly
decadent through to just going along for the fun of it. Most of them have
been driven insane by the climactic events of this night - they are the
fortunate ones.

THE LOCATIONS

3. GUEST ROOM
Comfortably decorated. On the bed the ghosts of two cultists have sex for
eternity - they beg the characters to free their souls. Yes, you would.

6,7. STORES
The foodstuffs in room 7 are invested with Chaos Worms, and will tell the
characters to "f... off, we're eating!".

9. SMOKING ROOM
In the drinks cabinet is a small locked case that contains a collection of
drugs - Stardust (2 doses in a small clay pot), Moonflower (5 doses in a
waxed leather pouch) and Laughing Powder (3 doses in a small vial) in
addition to a Potion of Healing (looks and tastes like cat urine) and a
vial of sweet, syrupy red liquid. The latter makes the drinker immune to
psychological effects for d6x10 turns, but after the effect wears off the
full import of what the character has seen will come rushing up to meet him
- gain d3 insanity points.


10. CLOAKROOM
This unlit room contains 24 robes of varying degrees of richness, owned by
the visiting cultists, hung on pegs.

11. SMALL READING ROOM
There are several books lying around, in the bookcase (most of them full of
sex and violence) and an especially noteworthy one open on the reading
table - it is the Karma Suture, a bizarre illustrated book that manages to
combine the disciplines of sex and medicine with startling and often
nauseating success.

12. THE STAIRS
Behind the doors lies a flight of wide wooden stairs. A low stream of thick
lavender mist from the level above cascades down them, fading into nothing
at the bottom. This mist permeates the second level of the house, and
affects PCs after 2 minutes if a Toughness test is not passed, making the
character affected feel light-headed and lose 20% from all his percentage
characteristics. While walking through the mist Move is reduced by 1, while
Initiative and Dexterity both lose 10%.

14. SITTING ROOM/BEDROOM
This is Reiner's bedroom and is garishly and sensuously decorated in bright
colours and rich fabrics. It looks like an overpriced whorehouse. In a
locked cupboard  is an impressive collection of bondage gear.
Some lewd silver ornaments on the mantlepiece could be difficult to sell
reputably.
Reiner Haarigfleisher is here, but in an extremely bad way. He is stretched
out on the bed, but has actually become part of it, his hair and nerve
tendrils reaching out like seaweed to merge into the stuff of the bed. As
if this wasn't enough, he is covered with little gibbering and gnawing
chaos worms - little maggot-like creatures with grinning human faces and
sharp teeth. There is no way to help him without killing him, which he will
beg the characters to do.

17. PARTY ROOM
In these two rooms Reiner holds some of his lavish private parties. They
are both outrageously decorated with a rich, deep piled electric blue
carpet throughout. The mist is extremely thick here and shapes can be
vaguely seen moving within it. The air is full of orgiastic moans and
groans. A long sideboard covered in pink silk dominates the first room, and
is covered with all manner of half-eaten rich imperialist titbits, plus the
remains of whole game birds, bottles of expensive wine, etc. Food and pools
of spilt wine litter both rooms.
Among the swirling mists writhe a determined group of cultists engaged in a
desperate last orgy of the flesh. They will try to pull characters down to
join them, muttering garbage like "only our own flesh is left to enjoy" and
"look not at the table, feast upon us". Their partial insanity has given
them great strength (no modifier to WS for Grapple test, +2 to S scores).
They are also still hungry; once they have a character on the floor they
will attempt to eat him - biting for normal damage.

20. BUTLER'S CHAMBERS
The living quarters for Reiner's butler/caretaker, Pierre Mouchon, a
thoroughly decadent and foppish Bretonnian. He is now half insane, huddled
in a corner in terror. If the characters agree to his desperate begging to
be brought along with them, he will eventually freak out and attempt to
kill one of the characters with a poisoned hair pin he has concealed in his
outlandish hairdo. Think 'Draughtsman's Contract'.

21. CORRIDOR
Reality in this corridor is undergoing quite a few bizarre shifts. The mist
gets somewhat thicker, and characters may find it difficult to focus on the
polished oak panelled walls, as they bend and stretch in and out of
reality. As the characters get nearer to the door to room 22, they will
begin to see faces and hands pushing out of the walls. However these faces
will be recognisable as the characters themselves. Each character must make
a Cool test or gain 1 insanity point.
The faces then begin speaking, entreating the characters to stop looking so
serious, have a good time, find someone (or each other) to have sex with,
"join us, join us" etc etc.
The faces and hands cannot be harmed but are bloody annoying.

22. WORSHIP/PARTY CHAMBER
This room is in sharp contrast to the rest of the house, and the door,
though unlocked now, has a large and complex lock on it. Here Reiner and
his compatriots indulge their deepest and darkest vices. A niche in the
opposite wall betrays where a window has been bricked up. The walls are
sealed with a thick layer of roughly applied, dirty and brown-stained
plaster. From the ceiling hang chains, bizarre metal and leather devices,
and a single small lamp, softly swaying and clinking in the unnatural
movements of strangely chill air. The mist swirls thickly about the floor.
Unidentifiable in the dim light, liquid drips from the ceiling and down the
walls. A soft, almost subliminal chorus of low moans comes from somewhere,
setting the hairs on the back of the neck rising. The smell is horrific. As
the PCs move into the room they may slip on unidentifiable scum on the
floor - slime, excrement, bits of flesh, internal and external organs. The
room's shadows are deep and inpenetrable.
Hanging from some of the contraptions are several cultists in too horrible
a state to properly describe. Most are dead, but one still giggles softly
to himself, occasionally shifting position with a clinking of chains to
intensify his agony just that little bit more.
In this chamber PCs Cool is reduced by 10.
The room has lost touch with reality somewhat, and as characters move
deeper into it they may realise that this same horrible environment
continues forever (reduce Cool by another 10 at this point). After about
ten minutes of walking, however, the characters will begin to hear voices -
three high pitched, giggling and taunting voices (the Daemonettes) jeering
at one terrified, whining voice (Goebbels/Wittgenstein).
One of the Daemonettes will hear the characters approach and say "Quiet,
lovers, I hear more guests approaching". The characters will then see the
group (make Fear tests).
Wittgenstein is a pitiful state. He is naked, and curled about on of the
Daemonette's (Anika-Elise/Foul Crabstinger) legs like an obedient dog. He
alternately strokes his mistress, whining and begging, and shrinks in
disgust and fear. Have him accusing the characters of the death of his
family (remember DotR), perhaps with a Daemonette saying "now now, my
lovely one, we are all family now".
The Daemonettes names are Gibbergrue, Foul Crabstinger and Wormglutten.
They are quite open to conversation if the characters wish, eagerly
enumerating all the pleasures that can be experienced as worshippers of
Slaanesh. This is a good point to let the players know Foul Crabstinger's
real identity. Let the players converse with demons instead of killing them
for a change - it's a good , scary scene to play out.
What happens next is up to the GM. In my game the players eventually
attacked, but were on the verge of all dying horribly when Adolphus Kuftsos
entered the fray and turned the tide of the battle. Unfortunately a
daemonette  cast a Fleshy Curse spell at him, with the observant comment:
"These human frames, while amusing for a time, are so frail when rewarded
with a glimpse of the pleasures we can offer. How fortunate that your souls
are so much more... receptive." Adolphus Kuftsos could also dive in front
of a players to cop the spell. Lovely irony, considering he was chasing the
players down way back in The Enemy Within. Make the saved player the one he
was after back then ...
If the Daemonettes are killed they will disappear, taking the horribly
struggling Wittgenstein with them (if he is still alive).
The room will fold back on itself dramatically intil the characters find
themselves facing the back wall of the room. A few seconds to relax, then
the wall dissolves and  turns into a swirling wall of Nothingness, that
begins to move forward at frigtening speed. If the characters touch this
wall they will be sucked into the void and lost forever; as soon as it
contacts something the object is sucked away greedily.
A desperate race ensues as the characters just make it throught the front
door as the entire house and its corrupted contents are sucked into the
void.

Enjoy ... and by the way, there's nothing twisted and sick about my
imagination - I'd just watched Hellraiser on video, it's Clive Barker's
fault!
