From: Michael Andersen <ia9501@knold.ballehs.dk>
Subject: The inquisition comes to town

Hi again, as I have received a lot of useful critique from my last postings,
I will try out this little encounter. I have played it once with my current
gaming group, as a complication to another scenario. As allways --- Feedback
is happily accepted.

Michael Andersen


The Inquisition comes to the town
---------------------------------

Here is a little encounter to be used in your WFRP campaign. The encounter can 
be used to complicate another scenario which should take place in a minor 
village in the Ulric devoted lands and possibly involving the finding of a 
secret Chaos cult or something like that.
I have used it in my own campaign. One character was lost, but he was asking 
for it. He wasnt actually killed by the inquisition but left Chained in the 
mercy of the city as a true heretic, and the other players was responsible 
for his killing - They had to in order to roleplay their characters, the man 
preached the lore of Khaine!!.

Ernst Heiligenschein - a Ulrician Inquisitor, has been appointed the task of 
traveling to the village because of rumors about a heretic who have persuaded 
some of the villagers into following his religion.

The "heretic" is an evangelist speaking Sigmars words. He have traveled north 
to tell the northern heretic about the true religion and save their souls.

The Ulrician inquisition belongs to the Pro-Ulric fraction, and the Sigmarites 
belong to the Pro-Sigmar fraction.

How the adventures should be involved is entirely up to you. They might meet
Johannes first as he preach for a group of people along the road. Later when
they have arrived in the village and gotten shelter for the night, the 
Inquisition could come to the village, and the period of pardon (see below),
can be declared. Erich might suspect the adventurers and get them to a 
inerview, where he will ask different question about their religion, what they
are doing in the town etc. He might even believe that a PC Sigmar cleric is
the evangelist he is looking for.
The PCs should learn that Erich have comed for Johannes. What they do is
entirely up to them. They might leave it alone, or Ulrician characters might
whant to help Erich. Then again Sigmarite characters might want to help 
Johannes. They might also try to make Erich realise that an even greater evil
lurks in the village (e.g. the reason why the adventures are here).
Whatever they do, they should be careful when dealing with Erich.

The Ulrician Inquisition
------------------------
The Ulrician Inquisition has much power and authority in the lands of Ulric - 
both in the churchs and on the upholders of the law. They are a traveling 
court who's judging isn't questioned.
When the inquisition comes to a village, the usual approach is to declare "The 
period of pardon", which is a period of 3-7 days (stated by the 
head-inquisitor), in which heretics can turn themselves in and get a mild, but 
well deserved, punishment. No one is to leave the area while "the period of 
Pardon" is in effect (This will effectively trap the players in a village with 
a group of psychopathic fanatics).

The punishments varies according to the offence and the circumstances.
The following types of punishment is preefered:
* Burned by the stake (The cleansing fires purify the soul, and Cult worship 
  of the bones is prevented)
* The mark of the Wolf (A image of sa wolfs head is burned into the forehead 
  of the heretic, thus marking him as a heretic)
* The mark of the Wolf II (A more human version of the above example, the 
  heretic must wear a patch with a wolfs head for 5years to life, thus marking 
  him as a heretic)
* Whipped (The number of slashes depends on the offence, ranging from 5 to 
  lethal numbers)
* Appointed to venture as a pilgrim to the holy city of Middenheim (There 
  praying for 3 days and 3 nights for his own soul) or some other place to do 
  an appointed task.

Different tests:
----------------
The test for witchcraft:
This test is very popular under the name "The Water test". And is used to 
determine wether a person is protected by evil forces or not. The person is 
putted in a sack and throwned in the river. If he floads then surely some evil 
forces is protecting his life (and he is found quilty). If not (And the test 
must be tried for some time, because the evil forces can cheat you know! ;-)  ) 
then he is found innocent.

The test of Ulrics fire::
This test is used to determine wether Ulric protect his child, or wether he 
scorns the heretic. The persons hand is exposed to open fire. If no burn marks 
appear, then surely Ulric have protected his child. If the person is burned 
then there is no question about the heretics guilt.

Profiles
--------
Erich Heiligenschein 
Erich is 42 years old, and a very strict man. He swears to law and order, and
scorns all non-Ulrician religion, especially the Whorship of Sigmar. He wont 
even like the general idea that Sigmar is a saint in the Ulrician religion and
his general opinion on this matter is that Sigmar hasnt even existed, and is
made up in the heretics mind.
He is a very respected man within the Ulrician cult, but the cult preefer to
have him away from Middenheim and out in the lands of Ulric instead.

Inquisitor  - cleric level 2, ex cleric level 1, ex initiate.
M WS BS S T  W  I A Dex Ld Int Cl WP Fel
4 46 42 4 4 10 56 2  52 78  55 75 67 42

Motivations: Hunt down heretics in the Nordland. 
Catchphrases: "CONFESS!", "Silent! I must keep my mind clear and my soul 
	clean", "No Thank you! I do not drink wine and other subsistence that 
	pollutes the soul and I would strongly advice you to do the same."
Skills: Torture, Read/Write, Secret languages - Classical, Arcane languages - 
	Magickal, Public Speaking, Law, Religious Authority, Invoke Prayer 
	level 1+2, Meditate, Identify Undead, Sense Magick, Ceremony, Disarm, 
	Dodge Blow, Cult Doctrine - Ulric.

Trappings: Robes, Seal of Approval from Ar-Ulric, Deus ex Machina, Religious 
	token of Ulric, Horse.

Prayers: Fireball, Cure light injury, Lighting Bolt (Divine invoking of 
	lightning).

Markus and Berthold, 2 Witchhunters, ex. Ulric Clerics lvl. 1
M WS BS S T  W  I A Dex Ld Int Cl WP Fel
4 65 65 4 4 12 69 3  45 49  41 49 75  37

Skills: Marksmanship, Public speaking, Silent move rural/urban, Sixth sense, 
	specialist weapons - Net/Lasso/Throwing, Strike Mighty Blow, Dodge 
	Blow, Read/Write, Scroll Lore, Secret Language - Classical.

Trappings: Full plate armour (2 AP -10 dex -10 I -10 WS), Sword, 10 yards rope, 
	2 Throwing knives, Religious Ulric symbol, Horse, Cult Doctrine - 
	Ulric, Arcane language - Magick, Invoke Prayer level 1

Harald and Anders, 2 Fangs of winter fanatics

M WS BS S T  W  I A Dex Ld Int Cl WP Fel
4 53 41 4 4 11 51 2  35 42  41 67 50  35
Skills: Disarm, Dodge Blow, Frenzy, Secret Language - Battle tounge, Specialist 
	weapon - 2 handed, Street fighting, Strike Mighty low, Strike to 
	Injure, Strike to Stun.

Trappings: Mail shirt, breast plate, Ragged robes, 2-handed axe

The Opposition
--------------

Johannes Himmelmann, Sigmar Evangelist

Johann is 33 years old, and appears as a blonde man with blue eyes. He has a 
lot charisma and people are generally attracted to him.
He is very naive and a strong believer, believing that no harm will befall him,
and when it does, believing that it is the way of Sigmar, and that it has some
deeper meaning (The world needs a martyr, etc.).

M WS BS S T  W  I A Dex Ld Int Cl WP Fel
4 32 31 3 3 10 52 1  33 77  43 63 57  78
Motivations: To deliver the message of sigmar to the Ulrician heretics in the 
	north.
Catchphrases: "I know the key to eternal salvation, give up your heretic lifes 
	and I promise you, that Sigmar will have mercy on your souls!", 
	"... and Sigmar confronted me in my dreams and appointed me the task of 
	cleaning the souls of the non-believers."
Skills: Acting, Blather, Charm, Cult lore, Intimidiate, Public speaking, 
	Seduction, Story telling, Read/Write, Scroll Lore, Secret language - 
	Classical, Cult doctrine - Sigmar.

Sigismund and Erhardt, 2 Sigmar fanatics (Flagleants)
M WS BS S T  W  I A Dex Ld Int Cl WP Fel
4 52 31 4 6 11 50 2  35 40  42 69 53  34
Motivations: to protect the life of Sigmars chosen: Johannes Himmelmann, no 
	matter what opposition they might meet.
Catchphrases: ".......<silence>......"
Skills: Disarm, Dodge Blow, Frenzy, Secret language - Battle, Specialist 
	weapon - 2 handed, Street fighting, Strike to Injure, Strike to Stun.
Trappings: Ragged robes, 2-handed warhammers.
Special rules: If Johannes is attacked the 2 fanatics will enter frenzied 
	state and additionally gain hatred against the attacker and any 
	friends associated with him. In this state they can't be forced to 
	leave combat.


BTW, who wrote the seed of evil? I'm going to use the adventure in my gaming
group (it seems good), and I would like to give some feedback.

Thanks for the comments on the Ernst Himmelmann article. Perhaps I was too
quick to post it, Noel Welsh's and Marco's ideas was really good, and I
agree that the encounter might open adventure opportunities. Feel free to
work on it ppl, I have some other WFRP projects to work on at the moment.
The problem about the missing names was intentionally. I also make up names
during play, typically some ironic names - the Character pack rules have a
great table. BTW, Noel: I wrote the letters from Sylvania (Elizabeth Bathoy,
etc.) too, and I would be glad to hear your comments!

Mark Marvin: Some guy in Denmark, once wrote a con-scenario  involving
Snotlings player characters. Everyone is talking about it (it is said to be
a great and funny scenario). In october Im going to the Viking con, and I
will try to find out who the author was.
