From: unihead@magna.com.au (Peter Gifford)
Subject: Plot idea

Here's a rough adventure outline inspired by Anne Rice's "Interview with
the Vampire", and other bits and pieces... it needs a bit of work but was
enjoyed thoroughly by my players ... since it was a quick one session game
I basically winged it, and concentrated a lot on atmosphere rather than
precision ... enjoy! ...
Fit it in after Power Behind the Throne.

THE PLOT

A new night time entertainment spot has opened in Middenheim and is
becoming very popular with those of the upper ranks of society. Called 'The
Knight Haunt', the restaurant/bar/gambling /pleasure den is all the rage
this season. What most of its patrons don't realise, however, is that The
Knight Haunt is owned and operated by a notorious Brettonian vampire, (the
Count), and his growing coven of followers.

The PCs are invited to a big night at the new spot by Rallane (from PBtT),
where they become involved in a high stakes gambling game with the Count.
One of the PCs (hereafter known as the Sucker - choose the best roleplayer
of the group), meets Genieveve, a recently 'converted' vampire and the
Count's current lover, who decides to seduce the Sucker and make him a
member of the coven in a bid to make the Count jealous (he is rapidly
tiring of her company).

Crossing the Count by beating him at dice and flirting with his girlfriend
are not good ideas, and he swears vengeance on the PCs. They are subject to
several night visits by minions of the Count. Finally they meet one of the
coven's human followers/aids, someone they have previously trusted, who
tells them he knows of the secrets behind The Knight Haunt. He leads them
into a trap, and the Sucker is captured and hypnotised by Genieveve and
lead to the coven's lair in the city's graveyard.

The party learns of the Sucker's fate and follows clues to the graveyard,
the capricious Genieveve beckoning them all the way. There they find the
Sucker abandoned but drained and on his way to becoming a vampire. Only by
breaking the power of the coven and learning its secrets can they hope to
save the Sucker from becoming one of the Living Dead.

THE LOCATIONS

1. THE KNIGHT HAUNT
Gothic-decor, dark, mysterious and lavishly decorated, with a feeling of
deep decadence. Back rooms shrouded in thick black velvet.

2. ALLEYWAY
Ambush location.

3. BASE OF THE TRAITOR'S CLIFF
Where the bodies of criminals are dumped - here is where the PCs are led
into a trap and the Sucker kidnapped. A small community of ghouls has
sprung up around here.

4. THE MIDDENHEIM GRAVEYARD
Graveyard and tomb complex that is the lair of the coven.


OTHER IDEAS

1. HANDS ON THE TABLE
To emphasize the decadence of The Knight Haunt, two gamblers wager
"whatever the winner wishes". One loses and the winner demands the hands of
the loser. The sentence is carried out there and then.

2. UNDER THE INFLUENCE
The Sucker, after a few nights with Genieveve, becomes totally hypnotised
by her. Tell him secretly that his character is compelled to follow certain
instructions - including, possibly, leading the other players into a trap.
Each time he is forced into this situation allow an ever-decreasing chance
he can resist these compulsions.
Eventually the Sucker may be forced to turn on his companions and attack
them with all the means at his disposal - blatantly or carefully planned.

3. DON'T TALK TO ME ABOUT TRUST
The trusted NPC who leads them to the coven is being forced to do so
because his wife and twin daughters are being held by the vampires. Of
course by the time the PCs find them, they are vampires themselves and
after feigning terror, turn on the NPC  before attacking the PCs.

4. HEY DOLL
Genieveve owns a china doll which is possessed by an evil spirit and is
extremely nasty.

5. BEWARE OF THE DOG
Undead animals, perhaps rumaging through the corpses at the base of the
cliff or through the graves in the graveyard; perhaps guard dogs.

6. BREAKING THE SPELL
The Sucker can only be rescued from becoming a vampire by undergoing some
painful, and on first examination deadly, ordeal that has to be discovered.
Something he would normally never want to do eg. kill himself or chop off a
bit of his anatomy.

7. DISCARDED LOVER
An old lover of Genieveve's, before she met the Count, has become obsessive
about her and is another factor to worry about. He may be the NPC that the
PCs never know is trustworthy or not - does he want revenge on Genieveve
for leaving him, or on the Count for seducing her, or on the Sucker for
being the new paramour - do his half mad ravings about demonic possession
have any basis in truth? He may begin trying to kill the Sucker but then
recognise himself in the Sucker and try to befriend and warn him.

8. POTENTIAL OPPONENTS
GHOSTS, SPECTRES, WIGHTS, WRAITHS Graveyard dwellers, allies (uneasy and
otherwise) of the coven, long forgotten spirits good and bad, past coven
victims.
MARSHLIGHT Drawing the PCs among the graves of the dead or the barren waste
at the base of the cliff.
MUMMY Tomb dweller.
SKELETONS, ZOMBIES, GHOULS Mindless slaves of the coven. Bodies among the
dead bodies at the cliff base.
BATS, GIANT BATS, RATS


Yeah, well I said it was rough...

Giff
