Sender: wfrp@buddha.intecom.com
To: Multiple recipients of list <wfrp@buddha.intecom.com>

Campaign:
Journey to Kraggon-Kor

outline

Part I:  Panic in the City

	underground cults getting scared - sloppy, paranoid, working faster

	wizards sense a powerful magic draw to the mountains

	wizard/seer approaches the party - Asks for their help in a journey to the
      worlds edge mountains

	wizard is under charge of the empire

	another wizard gives Alex a bag of eleven arrowheads

	all characters are given leather studded jackets (cannot be worn under
plate armour)

Part II:  The Road to Safety

	while the characters are on the road they will see many people heading
toward 		the city.

	these people have had their farms plundered by bands of goblins and 			beastmen

	these bands are increasingly more active and they mean to kill

	Subpart II:  The river of blood

		as the characters cross a river it will suddenly become a dark red.
almost 		instantly dead fish will start to float on the surface.  In two
hours the water 			lightens up to a light pink and then clears up

		upriver there is a town  (Gillingham)

		at the edge of the city lay hundreds of dead goblins and beastmen there
			are a few scattered in the city also

		in the city all the citizens are impaled on long sticks and stuck in the air
		all characters must immediately test against terror those who fail gain
			2+d10 insanity points.  all others gain 1 insanity point

		along the river on either side a regiment of imperial soldiers 100 strong
			are put up like the citizens except that their heads are cut off so that
the 			blood flows into the river

Part III:  Taal's tears
	
	that night among dreadful nightmares all the characters will dream that
that they 	see Taal on his knees and crying.  each one of his tears hits
the ground and into 	a warrior who run off into the woods towards the
mountains

	the next day on the ground are lumps of silver in the shape of tear drops.
there 		are enough of them for one for each character

Part IV:  Enter the Spawn & Melee!

	late one night just before bedding down the party will hear voices and see
		firelight in the woods.  if they check they will see a large war party of
goblins 		about 100 and 50 beastmen by a huge bonfire

	a lead beast speaks "Brothers, long have we waited for this day.  The
			messenger who has approached brings news that the great Gnar stirs in
his 		tomb.  Today we have triumphed over the Irrlioch.  Tomorrow we shall
prepare 		the Gnar's way and wash the ground with blood!"

	then while the war party is feasting on human flesh the party will hear
warhorns.  	the war party doesn't seem to hear the horns.

	any elves will know that they are the horns of  Lianadrell the lost Regiment

	the elves will then attack the war party.  if the party helps the elves
will bring 		them to their camp and heal any and all wounds

	if asked the elves will say that the silver teardrops are truesliver
(mithril silver) 		and that only the ancient dwarves in the Worlds edge
mountains still have the 		skill to craft it


Strength of the War party

	Beastman spawn - 45 most wounded
	goblin spawn - 102 most wounded
	Orc - 1 with fireball spell

Experience Pts

Part 1
	10 each - for stopping the robbery
	20 each - for finding out the cults are scared
	75 each - for joining the wizard

Part 2
	15 each - for finding out why the people are going to the city
	100 each - for disposing properly of the bodies

Part 3
	30 each - for picking up the silver and
	blessing - wild animals will not attack the party
	+1 fate point

Part 4
	50 each for listening to the beastman
	100 each for entering the battle
	20 each for finding out about the silver
	+10 to the one who asks

Part V: Journey

	Spawn encounters
		5 Goblin Wolf riders (leader can cast 1 fireball)
		5 Beastmen (leader can cast 1 fireball)
		Orc riders -2 can cast fireballs

	Non-spawn encounters: book percentages

	Taal's dream will repeat itself 4 more times








Part VI: Worlds Edge Mountains

	split in the road:  when in the foothills the road will fork.  one path is
in good 		condition and looks well traveled the other is in disrepair and
overgrown.
	(the overgrown path leads to a large paved road that leads straight to the
door 		of a dwarven stronghold.  the good path leads to a mountain pass
that has a 		cave in it.  it is well traveled because the goblins and orc
use it)

	if the good road is taken the party will have to travel through the
caverns.  there 		is a 45% chance of meeting goblins while in the tunnels.
it will take 3 hours to 		find the dwarven hold

	if the party approaches the main door they will have to pass a fellowship
test to 		be allowed if there is an elf in the party with -10% penalty for
each elf in the 		party.  if the party doesn't have a dwarf there is no
chance of being let in

	if the party enters through the tunnels and helps fight off the goblins
the dwarves 	will grudgingly let any elves in the hold

	if the party mentions that they are looking to stop the Gnar they will
immediately 		be led to the king.  if not they will be dealt with by an
ambassador

	the ambassador will declare that they are crazy for going into the tunnels
but 		will give them supplies that they need.  just before leaving two
dwarves Anval 		and Borin Ironfist (brothers) will volunteer to come along
as guides

	if they see the king he will promise them if you succeed I will fill a man
size 		chest with jewels for you to keep.  Then he will ask for dwarf
volunteers to guide 	the party.  Anval and Borin will accept.

Part VII:  From the tunnel to the light

	The party will start out on a new day.  they will pass the northern
marches of the 		hold and into the surrounding tunnels.  After numerous
encounters and near 		misses, if any characters don't then Anval will say,
"We can't make it this way 		there are too many gobbos down here.  We'd
have a better chance above 		ground."  if the group agrees they will be led
to a secret entrance to another 		pass.

Part VIII: Stone Men and Stone giants

	while walking along this path a bolder will crash to the ground.  looking
up the 		party will see a large stone man about to throw another bolder
down.  there are 		six stone men each one throws one stone.  A hit by any
magic weapon will 		shatter the stone men and all that will be left is its
two gemstone eyes.  If all the 		stone men are killed then the wall on one
side will open up and the pass will 		close, forcing the party into the
hole.  once the stone closes a voice will boom 		out,
		"Who dares destroy my minions!  My army of stone men will destroy you!"

	the room is large with many carved stone pillars, many places to hide in
or be 		ambushed from.  A large tapestry hangs from the far wall.  if the
party make any 		threat they will be attacked by d10+3 stone men.  When
they are all destroyed 		the voice will say, "You have destroyed them all!
You are strong indeed.  If you 		give me the eyes of my creations I will
grant one wish.

	out from behind the tapestry a 10 foot tall Man walks out and holds out
his hand 		for the eyes.  if they give them to him he will grant a wish.

	whatever the wish he will bend it so that he will join the group

Stone Men profile

	M	WS	BS	S	T	W	A
	4	25	 0	7	7	75	2



Experience pts

Part 5
	5 - for the goblins
	10 - for the beastmen
	15 - for each Orc

Part 6
	20 each for taking the road less traveled
	5 each - for taking the traveled road
	2 - for each goblin slain
	30 each - for entering the Dwarf stronghold
	50 each - for seeing the king

Part 7
	2 - for each goblin slain
	10 each - for agreeing to go above ground
	+10 - for suggesting the party go above ground
	
Part 8
	+20 for figuring out that magic weapons destroy the stone men
	10 - for each stone man
	20 each - for picking up the eyes
	30 each - for excepting the offer of a wish
	20 each if the Utruni Stone Giant joins the group
Part IX: Dwarven Ruins Dwarven Runes

	after marching along the sides of the mountains the party will find an
archway 		with smooth stone covering it.  characters with sense magic will
feel that it is 		magical.  if any character places his hand on the door
and says "OPEN!" in the 		dwarven tongue.  take an intelligence test to see
if anyone thinks of this 			(dwarves +10).  if the test is failed by all
then the party will be able to follow a 		party of goblins into the
mountains at dusk.

	inside the doors writings say that this is the lost colony of Karak - Korig

	basic percent chance of meeting goblins

	deep in the mountain the party will find the remains of 20 dwarves and 10
		human size figures.  upon examination the the armour of the man size
remains 		is elven and there are elven blades and shields!  this dead party
is extremely 		old!  all equipment that isn't destroyed or rendered useless
is in good condition 		because this cave is extremely dry.  of the shields,
most are heavily beaten, 		except an elven shield.  on it is a picture of a
dragon with it's mouth open to eat 		up what ever was touching the shield
(sense magic reveals that it is magical)

	On the wall in this chamber there are runes written in Dwarven.  They read,
		"All who pass this way who are good must protect this door from the evil
		tell none of it's whereabouts or of the way to open it.  To fail means
the 			downfall of the Chakka!"

	searching the bodies reveals nothing.  in one bag there is a journal, a
locked 		book and a scroll.
		the locked book looks new
		(Archaic Elven) the scroll is for a ring of protection: fire
		the journal written in high elf reads
			"On this the one and twentieth day of Hexenstag the Dwarves 				have
been assaulted by vile green creatures of chaos.  They 				follow 	the
leadership of some force called Gnar.  I have 					volunteered my unite to
help defend the south gate, in the unlikely 				event of an attack by that
way.  I fear that this will be the last time 				that I can write in this
journal.  If I shall fall I wish my belongings to 				be sent to my family
in the Silver Forest.

					Aragorn of Hoeth

	the body with the journal also has an Elven Great sword with a single rune
upon 	it's blade.  The blade is straight instead of the curving out and
then to a point 		like the craftsmanship of today.  (magic sense says it's
magic)



	the door needs a key to be opened.  in the middle of the door there is a
carving 		of a dwarven axe.  in an axe is placed in the carving the door
will open.


Wizard's Bane: Spell eater shield
	protects the bearer and his unit from non-missile magical attacks

Greatsword:
	magical; contains the rune of ______________________________


Experience Pts

Part IX
	20 - for the character who opens the door
	2 - for each goblin killed
	10 - for finding the shield
	20 - for finding the backpack and journal
	20 each - for opening the door
	+10 to the one who thinks of putting the axe in the carving (int test helps)	
	
Part X:  Kraggon Cor

	After entering the door the party will step into a large hallway with
cathedral 		ceilings.  Hanging from the ceiling are gold, silver and
crystal chandeliers.  		Along the sides of the hallway the statues of
Dwarves have all been cast over.  		Weapons are missing from their wall
hangings, all except  Dwarven axes.  		Garbage and fecal remains indicate
that gobbling have already been in this 		hallway.

	through two great open doors is a large room.  Statues of full plate
dwarven 		armour lye totally destroyed all over the floor.  A hole in the
wall to a small 		tunnel shows how the goblins got into this ruined city.

	the next room has closed doors.  if opened they will groan loudly, waking
up the 	regiment of 50 goblins and one Orc leader.  the characters can flee
into a tunnel 	on the left. (the hole in the wall is on the right).  if
they try to flee through the hole 	they will see torchlight coming from
that tunnel also.

	at the end of this tunnel there is a round room there are about twenty
goblins 		and one Orc there.

	there will be a doorway on the left that the party can go into.  Once
inside, the 		door will close

	Dining Room - 50 Goblins
				1 Orc
	Tunnel - 2 Orcs
	Round Room - 20 Goblins
				1 Orc

Part XI: The safe room and the Forge

	on the door, instead of a space for an axe, there is the shape of a short
dagger

	inside the room is a Blacksmiths forge.  everything needed to stoke up a
fire and 	mend armour is in this room.  there is also a cast for a small
metal dagger.  the 		party can use the time in here to mend their armour.
the Truesilver can be used 	to craft the dagger

	the doors will not open if there is danger outside, therefore the party
can leave 		through only three of the doors (not the one they came in
through)

	all passageways merge together at one point.  in front of the party are
two 		hallways.  behind them is the one they came from and two others.  if
they turn 		around they will end up back at the forge.

Part XII: The Maze

	no matter which of the two tunnels they take they will soon come to a
crossroad 		there is a hall to the left, right, and straight

Part XIII: The Throne Room and the Gnar

	if the party successfully navigates the maze they will come to two Large
Oaken 		doors.  the ancient carvings have been hacked away by swords,
maces, and 		axes.  what's worse though is that there are five Orcs
standing in the door way!

	after taking care of the Orcs experience should be given and advances taken

Experience Pts

Part 10 & 11
	Finding the Forge - 20 each
	Fixing the armour - 10 each
	Thinking of using the silver to make a key - 30
	For killing a Goblin - 2
	For killing an Orc - 5

Part 12
	Navigating the maze - 50 each

Part 13
	Killing the Orcs - 15 for each Orc
	Opening the door - 75 each
	Figuring out how to open the door - 25
Part XIV: Open the Doors!
	after the orcs are taken care of they will hear voices from the maze.

	looking at the door, they will not be able to find a place for a key
because the 		door has been hacked up so bad.  lucky for them the door
opens by spoken 		command	

	to hurry the party along, the voices will get closer and they will be able
to see 		torch light approaching.


--========================_14378329==_
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="us-ascii"

Paul

"Ouch!  What was that?"
"Only a bone crushing blow to the back of the skull.  How did you survive?"
"I have nothing there to crush!"



--========================_14378329==_--

