From: Michael Andersen <ia9501@knold.ballehs.dk>
Subject: Encounter: Mordax (minor SRiK spoiler) and re. to Adam

Mordax (Great dragon)
Sources: Whitedwarf #91, SRiK

In a deep dark cave, somewhere in the heart of The Worlds Edge Mountains, 
something stirred. Something huge. It lifted its head, groaned, and let it 
fall to the cavern floor again.

"Just another few years", it promised itself, falling back into a doze. As it 
slumbered, it dreamed. It saw the world as it used to be, seven thousand years 
ago, felt the noiseless explosion which threw the second moon into the sky. It 
dreamed of the armies of gibbering, twisted things which poured across the 
land.

The Dragon stirred uneasily as the dream shifted. It saw a strange figure step 
forward, heard again the wordless chant, and shuddered as the searing bolt 
struck it. Then it jerked awake.

"That dream again" it rumbled to itself. The Dragon pulled itself to its feets. 
Gaping wounds opnening along the length of its great body - they should have 
been fatal, but the Dragon would not find death so easily. It roared as its 
head brushed the wall, jarring its broken tooth and aggravating its abcess - 
the size of a mans head - which lay beneath it. For hours it raged. Then its 
eye lit on the great Dragon skull which lay just outside.

"Yes" it rumbled, "I must pull myself together. Things to do". It remembered 
the hatching of Kegox, its first offspring, and grunted.

"Hmm... He has his fathers face, " it mused, "twice. And the others are worse. 
But I'll sort it out. I'll kill every misbegotten spawn of Chaos I've fathered. 
Chaos isn't going to defeat Dragon-kin while i'm alive, and thanks to Chaos, 
I'm going to live for a very long time."

The ancient Dragon lumbered to the cave-mouth, stretching its tattered wings 
and hobbled down the mountainside to resume the self-appointed task of slaying 
its children.

This great and very old dragon became the victim of a foul Chaos spell in his 
early days. As a result of this spell, Mordax cannot die, and all his 
offspring's was born Chaos tainted. Mordax is now seaching for his Chaos 
tainted, numerous, children in order to kill them. One of his children is 
described in 'Something Rotten in Kislev' as the Dragon Creetox the Midget 
Dragon. 

Mordax could be encountered in the adventure 'Something Rotten in Kislev', if 
the adventure's are willing (Do they have a choice if he insist?!?) to help 
Durgul the sorceror with some of his missions (alternatively the venture into 
the Chaos wastes). On this mission they can get the assistance of Creetox (a 
very good idea, since its going to get tough. But...), but at this moment 
Mordax is closing in on poor little Creetox. Does the adventure help Creetox? 
They can't kill Mordax, but they can win time by forcing him away several time. 
Maybe this mission involves a material needed for the cure against Chaos 
mutation, and maybe if Creetox can be cured, Mordax will let the poor Dragon 
live (and the PCs will have a real and big Dragon!). 

Another opportunity might be that the PCs make a bargain with Mordax and give 
him Creetox (who will be instantly destroyed by the powerful Dragon. May his 
poor soul rest in peace). This opens another opportunity to the PCs: Mordax is 
so powerfull an ally that they, with a lot of help from Mordax, may be able to 
kill Durgul and the members of the Ancient allies of Zuvassin and Necoho, and 
thereby freeing them of the Oath-Curse. This victory shouldn't be won easily. 
Sure Mordax has a fair chance of killing Durgul, but it is going to take a lot 
of time (Mordax may flee a couple of times too!), and meanwhile the PCs have 
to take care of all the other members. The fight should win them a Fate Point 
(it is however very, very, tough, and they are likely to loose all their fate 
points in the process!).

M WS BS  S T W  I A Dex Ld Int CL WP Fel
6 81  0 10 9 * 50 6   - 89  43 38 89  24

Mordax fly as a lander, causes terror in living creatures under 6 feet tall, 
and fear in larger creatures. Attacks with 4 stomps, 1 bite, and 1 tail lash. 
The scaly skins provides 2 AP on all locations. May breath fire instead of 
normal attack (WFRP p.236).
If you wish Mordax may cast any Battle, Elemental, and Illusionist Magick 
spells (but he prefers not to, because magick is drawn from the source of 
Chaos). Because of his size, Mordax may attack three man-sized creatures at a 
time.
*): As described earlier Mordax cannot die. He is, however, not immune to pain 
(and his pains are numerous!), and every time he takes a hit which deals him 
more than 11 wounds (talk about lucky hit, thats 22 damage!), he must 
successfully test against against CL or flee combat (trampling anyone in the 
way - 4 stomp attacks). Each round thereafter it is allowed another test to 
recover.
You should be careful with old Mordax, he is a killer and may well kill you 
adventures in a couple of rounds.
