Michael Andersen
A NIGHTS WORK
By Michael Andersen <IA9501@KNOLD.BALLEHS.DK>

This adventure is to be used when your players are travelling
towards a minor village (or whatever size, as you see fit).
Essentially you can use this adventure as an event when your
players are travelling from one destination to another.
This advebture is the first WFRP scenario I have written
(its 4 years old), and I will be glad for any comments you 
might have. It was played several months ago at a christmas 
introduction to the Danish roleplaying club Pandora, and 
there was added a lot of sinister christmas humour to it, 
by my friend Jonatan Nielsen. This version however is the
'untouched' version, and you should feel free to add you own
touch, as long as you mention my name and only use the scenario 
in home campaigns.
By the way, please excuse my spelling errors. These things
happen when a guy from Denamark write something in English.

Please write me any comments on this adress: 
<IA9501@KNOLD.BALLEHS.DK>
And by the way sorry for not responding on earlier mail on
my old adress, I haven't received them.

The players are travelling towards the village of Finsterbad,
a little wealthy village in the area of hem and starts talking to them in a friendly 
manner, i.e. telling them about the town etc. Before 
leaving he will ask if the players are in need for money, in 
which case he has an easy job for them. He makes it clear 
that he's talking about illegal work. If the players are 
interested, Heinz will tell them that some Alchemist are 
in need of human bodies for experiments, and that he will 
pay well for them. If the players accept, Heinz will tell 
them to collect bodies from a nearby graveyard and meet 
him the same place later in the night. He will pay 25 gc 
(Haggle can raise this to 35 gc) for each useful body. For 
further details about Heinz, you should look at his profile 
in the last section.
 If the characters do not accept this deal, you can carry on 
with the adventure anyway, all the events later on still 
happens.  If the players try to contact the watch, they will 
find out that the office are closed for the night, so they can 
only report this on the next day, on which it will be too 
late.

THE GRAVEYARD

At day the graveyard is overlooked by the two 
gravediggers Hans and Benny, leaving no other 
opportunity than to do the robbery at night. The 
graveyard is a spooky but quite place at night.
The following list indicates what the players can find in 
the different graves.:
- The grave has a wooden cross. The coffin in it is empty 
because someone has been here before. This is in fact a 
clue, but the players aren't likely to know that.

- The grave has a tombstone with the following 
inscription.: Here lies Pat 'o' Longfoot. The grave 
contains a newly buried young female Halfling with a 
silver necklace on her neck (worth 10 gc).

- The grave has a tombstone which is partly broken and 
molded. The inscription can't be read. The grave contains 
an old body which falls to pieces when lifted. Players 
make a CL test, failure indicates 1 insanity point.

- The grave contains a wooden cross with the following 
inscription: Rest in peace little Henry. The grave contains 
a newly buried child. The players can't be that heartless!

- Wooden cross which says "Holger". The grave contains a 
newly buried man, who is very fat. the players have to use 
much time and effort to get him up, only resulting  in the 
big guy falling over one of the players, who makes a fear 
test as he looks into his dead eyes.

- Tombstone with inscription saying "Maria,  died of 
disease, may you rest in peace" . The grave contains a 
young girl, and the players risk getting a nasty disease 
(the GM may the honor of selecting one).

- Plain grave with a useful body.

Some events should also be used to stir things up during 
the night. At some point during the night, the players can 
hear two persons coming against the graveyard. This is 
Ursula (17) and Dieter (18) who have to sneak out at 
night, to get a chance to see each other. Today they are 
going to the graveyard for some star glancing and kissing. 
They are too interested in each other to notice open graves 
and the players (provided they hide of course), but they 
will stay almost all night if the players do not do 
something. How the lovers react upon the actions of the 
players is up to the GM, but keep in mind that they will 
be easily frightened, and that they won't return with help 
(they are to scared to get caught themselves). Smart 
players can even make a blackmail out of this.
 Later that night the smell will have attracted D4+2 Pack 
wolves who circles the graveyard.

THE MEETING PLACE
Heinz will wait for the players at the meeting place in the 
late night. He will select some of the bodies and pay for 
them. The bodies are loaded upon his wagon, and he 
drives into the wood to the secret body warehouse. After 
this he will ride into the town to sleep at the inn. The 
players will also be interested to do this, as they are very 
tired.

WAKING UP

While the players are asleep (they are very tired), Heinz 
leave the inn and disappears, meanwhile Morbius raises 
some old bodies as undeads and orders them to attack two 
farms outside the town. He wants to get peoples attention 
to the newcomers (the players) and thus winning time to 
become powerful enough to raise enough undeads to raze 
the town.
After some hours sleep the players are awoken by angry 
shouts from the outside of the inn. When the players 
venture outside they are grabbed by watchmen standing in 
front of a big crowd, including the council members of the 
town. A little red haired,  spotted, boy points at the 
players and says "It's them, I'll nev'r forget those ugly 
faces". Make it clear for the adventures, that there is no 
chance of escape (at least not alive). Council member Otto 
(Morbius!) walks over to the watchmen holding the 
players, with little red haired Ted by his side. "Well Ted. 
Are they the one you saw at the graveyard?" says Morbius 
and Ted responds "Yeah! You'll never forget those faces!". 
Morbius hands Ted some candy (actually his payment) 
and Ted runs off, while the players are dragged off to the 
jail while the crowd is jelling "Hang them, Burn them!" 
and worse. Actually Ted haven't seen the players, but are 
paid by Morbius to say so.
If the players have stolen anything from the bodies, or 
have any magical ingredients suggesting they might be 
Necromancers, they will have to come up with some good 
explanations before you can head on to the next chapter.

RELEASED

After some hours at the jail, Klaus Oberwald the mayor, 
comes to see the players. He tells the players that there is 
reason to believe they are innocent, because bodies has 
disappeared from the graveyard before. However he can 
only give the players three days to find the quilty. After 
this period the town and rest of the council will most 
certenally have them executed (It's better to pretend to 
have found the quilty, than to admit you haven't found 
him at all), as the evidence points on the players. If the 
players run away from the town, they will be looked upon 
as quilty, and will become outlaws hunted down by witch 
hunters, bounty hunters, and the imperial law. Because 
the players won't live long under these conditions, it will 
be wise for them to cooperate. Also they should consider 
the amount of EP's this can grant them.

WHAT NOW
Now that the players are free, they will probably have only 
the following options: Find Heinz, Check out the Body 
warehouse, check out the attacked farms. Find Heinz is 
impossible at this point, he is long gone, but they will find 
him later and find out that he isn't the necromancer.

THE BODY STOREHOUSE

The players might have followed Heinz and located the 
storehouse in the forest, otherwise they will have to search 
for it.
The buildings location can be seen on map 1. When the 
players emerge they will see a little building partly build 
inside the rock wall of a little cliff. Morbius use's this 
place to store his bodies. The only door in the building is 
locked. if picked or broken it opens up into a little front 
room with a door just ahead. The next door opens into a 
larger room inside the cooled cliff, and this is s where the 
bodies can be found. The following things can be found in 
the room: 5 bodies (as many as possible is the ones 
provided by the players), 3 scalpels, 1 sicor, 1 bottle of 
brandy, 1 bottle of fruit wine (the flavor can be 
remembered by a character with brewing skill), and a 
book containing notes of the bodies (including the ones 
the players found). In a cupboard 2  notes can be found. 
The first of them reads "To H. Get a new shipment as 
quickly as possible. Signed X", and the second reads 
"To X.  The boneman has becomed scared, he can not be 
allowed to tell anyone. Have you gotten the others away?  
Signed H". The first letter is written by Morbius to 
Heinz, and the second is by Heinz to Morbius. The 
boneman is the towns undertaker who also supplies bodies.
While the players wanders the forest around  the 
warehouse, you can throw in some encounters.
pick your favorite from below.
- D6+2 curious pack wolves who already have eaten
- D6+2 Hungry pack wolves.
- 1 Bear who stops and watch the players from a distance 
   encouraging them to find another way.
- 3 Bears of which one is the mother who defends them in
   a Frenzy.

THE ATTACKED FARMS
1. Farm
This farm is owned by Murphy and his 3 (Now only 2) 
sons. Unfortunately they already know the players because 
they where standing in the crowd early that morning. As 
the players approaches they will all wait for the players 
outside, one of the sons is carrying some robes to hang the 
players with. The players will not be able to talk to them, 
and if they kill any of them they will be charged for 
murder.

2.Farm
The family in this farm do not know who the players is 
and will cooperate as best as possible. Everyone survived 
because they ran away from the undeads, but some of the 
farm was burnt down and all their grain with it. The 
players will talk to the farmers wife Maria. She can tell 
that among the undeads was her Grandfather who have 
recently died. By further questioning the players will find 
out that he wasn't even buried yet but was at the 
undertakers store . Maria can't provide the players with 
other useful things.

HEINZ
It is impossible to find Heinz, but by asking the inns 
landlord the players can find out where he lives.
His house is located in the towns lower quarters. His front 
door is locked (CR 20).
House description:
A: Living room. Dirty and poor furniture's.
B: Bedroom. The door into this room is closed, and when 
opened the two Kislevite dogs Brutus and Reaver will 
jump upon the players. The dog is well trained and have 
been quite all the time. The bedroom contains a chest 
which holds Heinz' clothes. Under his bed is a non empty 
night pot. By his bed there a two bedroom drawers, on 
each side of the bed. on top of the first lies a book named 
"8 exciting Halfling folklore adventures" (Heinz have 
trouble sleeping!). The drawer contains a pie some 
tobacco and a key to the body store house. The other 
bedroom drawer is empty. By one wall there is another 
drawer containing pen, paper, and a note with the 
undertakers address. On top of this drawer is a cooking 
book which reads "To my little Heinz, from Mom". At the 
opposite wall is a shelf containing 5 cups, 2 bottles of red 
wine, and one 1 bottle of fruit wine (the same flavor as the 
one in the store house). Beside the shelf there is another 
drawer with a lot of papers, among these are two letters 
The first letter reads: "To H. People are getting suspicious 
and I'm planning to stop the delivery. I will of course 
leave town and I will not tell anybody.  Signed! A". 
The next letter reads: "To H. It was good you contacted me 
so quickly. If he tries to leave town you know what to do. 
By the way, for the last time, remember to get rid of the 
letters you little jerk. Signed M.". The first letter is 
from the undertaker to Heinz, and The next letter is from 
Morbius to Heinz. Heinz is supposed to kill the undertaker 
if he leaves town. At this point the players has been 
sneaking about too long, and 5 of the local street thugs 
comes up to the front door. The players hears a voice saying 
"Hey look, they are robbing Heinz' house. Lets beat'em up". 
If the adventures intend to kill them, there must be no 
witnesses, and the neighbors can if necessary easily be 
encouraged to know nothing.

THE UNDERTAKER

The undertaker Adolf Knastenburg can be found at day in 
his store, except at the 2. day, where he will leave the town 
at morning with a full packed wagon with mule. If the 
players doesn't prevent it he will be killed in the forest by 
5 thugs hired by Heinz. Adolf is clearly paranoid, and if 
questioned he will tell that he has supplied  bodies to 
Heinz, who is only a servant for the real necromancer. He 
have never meet Morbius and can't identify him. He will 
pay 43 gc 5 silver shillings and 2 pennies to be allowed to 
get away. This is all he have. Of course he will first try 
with a smaller amount. Adolf have received a letter that he 
will show the players. It is from Heinz, and it instruct 
Adolf to meet Heinz in a specific cave in the forest. Adolf 
however has no interest in showing up because he knows 
its a setup of some kind.
The Town have only a shrine to morr and because there 
are only one priest and one initiate associated with it, the 
town has a undertaker.
Description of the undertaker store.
A: Workroom. The room contains 3 finished coffins, 
wooden planks, hammer, nails, and a saw.
B: Shop. equipped with appropriate things.
C: Morgue. This is where the bodies are obducted and 
prepared for funeral.

THE LITTLE CAVE IN THE BIG FOREST

The meeting place that Heinz' note to Adolf  describe, is of 
course a setup. It is a cave located under the roots of a big 
Elm tree. The cave smells awful, and is in fact inhabited 
by Snotlings, but they aren't in there when the players 
arrive. When the players enter the cave, the Snotlings 
attack. there are ten Snotlings, and they use fungus 
weapons. No clues can be found in the cave, Heinz has of 
course never been here.

MORBIUS

When the players return to the town, or if they are already 
here, Otto (Morbius) will approach them to hear how they 
are proceeding. In fact he spies on the players, but as a 
council member he has a reason in doing it. If the players 
have a hard time tracking down Morbius later in the 
adventure, you can have Claus Oberwald come up to the 
players asking the exact same questions, looking rather 
surprised when he hears  Morbius have done this too. 
Morbius will also tell that the council prefers the 
necromancer alive.
At night the players are attacked by a skeleton champion 
who lead 4-11 zombies (depending on how much they 
reveal to Morbius).

HEINZ REVEALS HIMSELF

If the players sleep at the inn, or is anyway near it in the 
morning, the innkeeper will confront them and tell them 
he just Heinz ride out of town. This however is only if the 
innkeeper knows they are looking for him. When asked 
which direction he went, the innkeeper will point in 
direction of the body ware house. Heinz is in the store 
house, but the dead inhabitants have now been raised, so 
the players will be in for a surprise. There are 4 zombies 
and one undead hero. Heinz won't fight, and will 
immediately surrender if the undeads are slain, however 
he won't talk, but he has a note on him with Morbius 
Knochzaubers (Otto's) address. How they deal with Heinz 
is up to the players, but to kill him won't be a good idea, 
as many of his connections will avenge him. The best 
thing to do is to  hand him over to the authorities.

MORBIUS' HOUSE
(Note: The drawing of Morbius' house hasn't been included,
you should be able to make one of your own, if you need it)
Morbius is at the town hall, and the players isn't allowed 
to see him, Morbius will also remain hear during the 
night. Since they have no direct proof against Morbius 
they will have to break into his house to find some.
Description.

Ground floor:
A- Guard room. This is where Morbius' personally guards 
   sleep. Some of their trappings is here as appropriate (se 
   profiles).
B- Library. On a table lies some of Morbius's notes 
   (not included. It was a handout containing notes on 
   Morbius' studies in his books in this library - not 
   necromancy and such, but they contained some small clues, 
   to make the characters more sure that Morbius was their man. 
   It isnt a clue against him!). The secret shelf door is 
   opened by pulling in the book called "Halfling cook arts" 
   which opens to a stair leading down to location K. See my 
   library appendix for book examples.
C- Stairwell
D- Kitchen. The Halfling Neil Longfoot works here as a 
   cook, he can be easily convinced of some stupid story 
   about why the players are in here.  The kitchen contains 
   every items you'll see fit.
E- Storeroom
F- Dinning hall. One guard is always posted here.
G- Stairs to dinning hall.
H- Relaxing room

1.Floor
I- Alchemist work room, with items you see fit.
J- Bedroom
K- Neil longfoots room. Notes on his forthcoming book "A 
   Halfling's experience in a modern kitchen" lies here 
   including some of his trappings.
L- Storeroom

Cellar
M- Secret cellar. Morbius  workroom with books of 
   necromancy, old bodies, and necromancy notes with 
   Morbius handwriting. Every clue the players want is here.



ESCAPE

As the players reach the town hall, they will meet Claus 
Oberwald, who will tell that  Morbius has just left. When 
he hears the story he  quickly get 3 watchmen to 
accompany the players. Morbius is heading for the 
graveyard in a desperate attempt to summon undeads to 
protect him. Claus yells to get him alive so he can be 
burnt. How to play this chase and combat is up to you, 
avoid letting Morbius fight to the dead, he surrenders if 
he has no more undeads and is overpowered.

BURNT

If Morbius is caught, he will be burnt on the town square. 
As his body catches fire he begins to chant, but is quickly 
stoned to death by the surrounding people. Unfortunately 
Morbius has used his spell ring with the level 4 spell Life 
in death,, and as his body is burnt into ashes, his soul 
wanders on to find a new host. The poor players do not see 
the big strong peasant magnus'  sudden expression as his 
soul is killed and  Morbius' soul enters his body. As he 
wanders off he thinks to himself "You have won this time, 
but we WILL meet again...".

EP awards

-30 EP	For robbing and selling little Henry.
	(Depends on the type of player character)

0-30 EP	For good role-playing at the graveyard.

20 EP	For hiding eventually evidence the players 
might posses after the grave robbery.

15 EP	For dealing with Murphy without violence.

0-50 EP	For good role-playing in general

PROFILES

Adolf Knastenburg (The undertaker)
A scarred little man in his fiftees. Don't want any trouble,
just a little something for his retirement.

m ws bs s t w  i a dex ld int cl wp fel
4 25 20 2 3 6 30 1 32  21 30  35 35 28

Benny
Benny works as a grave-digger on the graveyard. He loves 
morbid jokes, and his job gives him lot of inspiration to 
new ones.
Age:24

m ws bs s t w  i a dex ld int cl wp fel
4 30 37 3 3 6 35 1 28  30 35  45 30 38
Skills: Blather, Comedian, Haggle

Hans
Career: Grave digger
Hans is Benny's counterpart, he is quit and gennerally
unhappy. He is always complaining about his back, the youth
and so on.
Age: 52

m ws bs s t w  i a dex ld int cl wp fel
4 30 29 3 3 6 27 1 28  37 30  40 37 36

Brutus & Reaver Heinz' Kislevite trained war dogs

m ws bs s t w  i a dex ld int cl wp fel
6 41 0  3 3 7 30 1  -  43 14  43 43  -
Subject to frenzy

Heinz
Career: Thief - Pickpocket		Age: 32

Heinz is a little sleazy looking guy with brown hair and 
brown eyes. He lives in the lower quarters of the town, and 
do a lot of good dealings with the quarters inhabitants. At 
the moment he works for Morbius Knochzauber who have 
promised him wealth and power when he succeds. If 
Heinz should be unlucky and get enemies, he has his two 
Kislevite dogs Brutus and Reaver to sort things out. Heinz 
is a person who can't be trusted, he will only do things 
which benefits his own needs. His own needs and 
motivations is to become rich as fast as possible. To 
Morbius great anoyment, Heinz have a short memory. He 
easily forgets things, and therefor allways have to write 
things like adresses and the like down.

m ws bs s t w  i a dex ld int cl wp fel
4 35 27 2 3 6 47 1 36  23 37  33 32 32

Skills: Concealment urban, Secret language - Thieve's 
tongue, Secret signs - Thieve's signs, Silent move - Rural 
Urban, Flee!, Palm object, Pick pocket, Read/Write

Equiptment: Short sword, Note with Morbius adress

Morbius Knochzauber

Career: 1 lvl. Necromancer	Age: 41	   MP: 27
Alignment: Evil

m ws bs s t w  i a dex ld int cl wp fel
4 35 31 3 4 6 25 1 29  33 41  29 39 25

Skills: Read/Write, Cast-Petty/Battle 1/Necro 1, Identify 
plants, Magic sense, Rune lore, Scroll lore, Identify 
undead, arcane language Magick, secret language- 
Classical, arcane language Necromancy.

Equiptment: Dagger, 10 corpses, spell ring (Life in 
death+20 mp), expensive clothes, purse (25 gc), 250 gc in 
home, 1000 gc stored.

Spells: Magic flame(P), Magic alarm (P), Fireball (1), 
Summon skeleton champion (N1), Summon skeletons 
(N1).

Dissabilities: Morbidity, Animal aversion (stage 1)

Morbius' Guards

m ws bs s t w  i a dex ld int cl wp fel
4 41 25 3 3 7 40 1 39  29 29  29 29 29
Skills: Specialist weapon - Fist, Street fighting, Strike 
Mighty Blow, Strike to Stun.
Possesion: Leather Jerkin (0/1 Body), Knuckle-dusters, 
dagger or club.

Neil Longfoot

m ws bs s t w  i a dex ld int cl wp fel
3 25 31 2 3 7 50 1 39  19 29  19 39 40
Skills: Cook, Backery

Thugs

m ws bs s t w  i a dex ld int cl wp fel
4 31 25 3 4 7 30 1 29  29 29  29 29 29
Skills: 25 % Street fighting, 25 % Strike mighty blow
Possesions: Leather Jerkin (0/1 Body), dagger or club.

Watchman

m ws bs s t w  i a dex ld int cl wp fel
4 41 25 4 3 7 40 1 29  29 29  29 29 29
skills: Strike Mighty Blow, Strike to Stun, specialist 
weapon - Double handed

Watchman Sergeant

m ws bs s t w  i a dex ld int cl wp fel
4 51 35 4 3 8 40 2 39  29 29  29 29 29
skills: Disarm, Dodge Blow, Strike Mighty Blow, Strike to 
Stun.

B