From skpogue@firefly.prairienet.orgWed Oct 18 11:42:57 1995
Date: Tue, 17 Oct 1995 04:55:08 -0500 (CDT)
From: "Stephen K. Pogue" <skpogue@firefly.prairienet.org>
Reply to: The wfrp mailing list <wfrp@gojira.monsta.com>
To: wfrp@gojira.monsta.com
Subject: WFRP: Road Encounter



On The Road

The party should come upon this encounter on the road, preferably
when they are between adventures.  In my campaign it blossomed
into a full adventure, but this is entirely up to the G.M.

As the party is winding down a long day on the road, looking,
for a place to camp, they hear a rumble coming out of the dusk
towards them.  A coach with a four-horse hitch is coming at
them at break-neck speed.  The party must clear the road
quickly or be run over.  [Optionally G.M.s may prefer to have
characters make I checks, or sustain a S3 hit].

As they see the coach go flying past them they notice several
odd things.  The coach is being "steered" by three goblins,
one of the horses in the second team is hurt or dead and being
dragged by the rest of the team and the coach is one of the
fine lines of coaches in the Empire (you pick which one).

What Has Happened:
A raiding band of goblins ambushed the coach.  The green ones
pulled the passengers and after torturing and killing them,
they found a true treasure - a cask of fine wine!  Needless
to say they became hopelessly drunk and a scrap broke out.
During the scrap three of the goblins took off with the
coach, whipping the horses into a gallop.

The coach will not be able to go much farther, the drunk
goblins have already killed one horse of exhaustion.  The
other horses are close as well, and soon one of the front
team will fall, stopping the coach.

What will happen:
It's up to you, but a few possibilities are:
	1.	The coach stops and the goblins surrender
to the party.  If anyone speaks their language they will
spill their guts.  Telling the party of their raiding band.
They of course leave out the part about the raiding party
being part of a greater army, positioned to attack a
nearby village.  Can the party organize the defense of the
village?
	2.	The coach stops, and the goblins manage to
escape.  The party is aware of a standing reward for the 
return of such a coach, but is dogged at every turn by
the goblin raiding party.  Further, explaining the whole
situation to the Road Wardens may prove to be tricky.
Finally, can anybody drive this thing?

I know this is a bit of a departure to what I see posted
to this list.  It may well be because this is out of
place, I apologize if that is the case.  I hope it adds
to your campaign!

Keith P.

--

q
```

