|Copyright ODDBJORN LONA
|THIS MAY BE USED FOR WHATEVER REASON.......Only one thing....if you use |it...give me a mail.....:-)
|
|I used this adventure to introduce some players to the wonders of the Old |World.  Note: Make sure that the players are aware of what a witch hunter |is.  This is an adventure for very low skilled characters.
|If you read it, you will probably realise that it will be more interesting |to make the war a more important part of the adventure, even perhaps make |the return of the Crystal Ball only a minor objective......
|
|Oddbjorn.lona@ban.aid.no
|world wide web : www.grm.hia.no/~oddlo

|I will probably change this adresse, by next summer......


Background

Alfred von Nogar was an active Witch Hunter, but that was about 8 years ago, and he is now retired from and runs a small but cosy inn. He is now about 60 years old.  He left the "business" because he "saved" Sonja Daeson (e.i killed her), who he believed was a deamonologist.  However, Sonja had been his lover for some time, he couldn't let her command deamons.  One night, he stabbed her with a knife, and left the house - never returning.

Her son, saw the "cleaning", and swore revenge (even though he was just 6 years old).  He has lived as his uncles place for the last 8 years, but recently his uncle died, so he went out to find Alfred (He knew who he was - his uncle told him).

The PC will have to "clear" Alfred's name, bringing proof that she really was a deamonoligist, but on the way to her cabin, they will then run into a small war against the Orcs. (Which may develop more than in this adventure - Here they will kill the Orc boss (Lord Baxus), but he may only be a minion or he may escape and swear revenge).  The Orcs are attacking smaller villages around the area, and have destroyed some.  They are lead by either Lord Baxus or some other higher (and tougher) Orc boss.  When they have destroyed the Orcs, they will be guided to Sonjas house, where they will find the proof - and fight a lesser deamon.

This could lead to an excellent campaign, where the players have to return Marienburg (or some other Town) and guide a small army.

******************************************** STARTING 3 - 2 - 1 - GO!!!  ***
Chapter 1 "Introduction".
The adventure starts in Marienburg, where they just have entered, at night.  They have a hard time finding an inn, so they have to take the only one open, or sleep outside.  Which is both illegal and cold. The only inn open at this hour (02.00) is "The Broken Bone", which is run by an old ex-Witch Hunter (reffered as WH from now on), named Alfred von Nogar.  He has now been retired for about 10 years, so he is quite old(he's pushing 60). The inn is cosy, with a small fireplace in the middle.  Over the counter it hangs a dark rapier, where Alfred sits reading his newspaper.
They have to pay him about 2 Gold for everybody to stay the night.   He will give them some hot food and will then tell them that he'll go to sleep.

While they sleep, they will be awaken by a noise in the hallway, and if they open the door, they will see a young man (kid - about 14) sneaking up the hallway.  He looks rather suspicious, a cloak and dagger, and he is out to KILL the WH, and if the PC don't stop him, Alfred himself will make some noise when he is wounded, but not dead - This will surely awaken the players. If they stop him, he'll try to fight, but untrained as he is, will soon give up. It will be enought just to speak in a commanding voice(Ld+10 test), especially by a large character(Ld+20).
If it looks like the PC will kill him anyway, Alfred stands in the hallway and stops them.  

Chapter 2 "The Explaination".
The kid, after a bit persuasion will tell them that he is the son of the last woman that WH destroyed.  The kid will go on and tell about what he saw, some 8 years ago.  The WH killed his mother for no reason at all. (The GM is left to make this as vividly as he pleases, perhaps make the players a bit angry for what the WH did).  He tells the further that he was 6 when he witnessed this.  While the WH will tell his story.  Both will ask the PC to investigate, perhaps finding some new evidence.  The GM may reveal as much as he likes of the background story.

If the PC are reluctant to take this adventure, then WH has some money, and perhaps information that they will find useful (Perhaps a treasure map - a ancient weapon that I never bothered to track down).
He will promise them about 50 Gold Crowns if they prove that he was right.

If they take the adventure, Alfred says 
"You have to ride about 10 days, eastward, into the forest.  You will ride past several villages, but finally you will enter a village called "Hokklund". There you will get the description to Sonja Deason's house by anyone.  In her house you might find some evidence, if not, return to my inn."

Chapter 3  
They will meet on day (Will meet a bear once):

The PC will ride for about 2 days before they see anyone.  After two days you will run into 2 orcs arguing about a dead deer (or some other animal).  When they see the PC, they will run away, unless they make a Cool test (-20, and have to test every round).  They are two hunters of a warparty further into the woods.  The will leave the deer, and it's quite delicios if they try to eat it.


Chapter 4
On day 3, they will run into a wounded bear. The bear has a broken spear in his side, and are pretty mad, and will attack anything that moves, especially horses....

Chapter 5
After 4 days, they will ride into a small village called Meyerville, which have recently been attacked by a small Orc warparty.  They lost 10 men in the battle, but the orcs (8) were completely wiped out.  They have sent for the Empire's soldiers two days ago.


Chapter 6
After 6 days they will reach "Sellville", which is a sad sight.  The 	village is completely razed, and if they examine the village they will surprise a orc patrol of 6 orcs (5 Orc + 1 Sergeant). They will not attack, unless the PC attacks them.  They will simply tell them that this is Orc territory, and the PC has to leave.  If the PC show any sign of hostility they will attack, there should be more orcs than PC, as this will probably show them how lethal Warhammer is (remember, I played for beginners).  If they do not fight goto chapter  7.
	
Chapter 6 
Hopefully the players will win, but if they don't they are captured and taken before the Greatest Lord ,Ruler of Sea, Ruler of Wind, Ruler of Earth, King of the Orcs, Knight  Bhaxus (You are free to make up a longer title).
He decleare them food-to-be.  First Hang - then Eat. They should escape!!!

Chapter 6.1
If they win the fight, they will find no living villagers and nothing of value - the area has been completely looted.  The orcs have nothing of value, except for the Sergeants sword (which is normal).  

Chapter 7 "Siege"
On day 10, they will enter "Hokklund", and this village is besieged by orcs. Fortunaly they will ride past the guards unoticed at night.
There is a total of  64 orcs who are sieging the village.  The "Greatest bla bla..Orc Lord Bhaxus" is leading this small Army. 
If they choose not to rescue the village and just get the direction to Sonja's house, goto Chapter 10.

Chapter 8 
They will face certain defeat if they try to hold the orcs back, although it could be interesting to see what happens.  The orcs have a clever commander, they will try to make one final attack that very night when the PC arrive, and they will do this with Arrows on fire.  This will probably  create panic in the village, and there are but 12 fighing men.  If the PC do not figure out by themself that they have to go out and kill the commander (Bhaxus), an old wise man could do it for them (advice them, that is)
They will find some equipment here, leather armour and some basic weapons.

Chapter 9 "The hunt for Bhaxus"
To escape they will have to kill a couple of guardsmen.   Bhaxus is pretty confident that no one will try what they try so he has only 2 guards, which are standard orcs.   He is sleeping for the moment in his tent, when the players makes their move.  He will, however, be awaken pretty quickly and will not be stabbed in his bed - This is the End-Of-Level-Boss-Nearly.
They have to use stealth, those who doesn't, will be captured.
If they manage to kill Bhaxus, the army will spread like the wind and they will not hear from this army again (at least not in another day or two)- there will however be another attack in a couple of days by another army, lead either by Lord Baxus or some other Orc Lord.  Bhaxus will probably survive, and unless they chop his head of or something they will face him another day.
Could  let one of the inhabitant promise something to one of the PC so he would like to avenge them when the village is destroyed.

Chapter 10.
They will perhaps receive healing and the direction to Sonja's house. The villagers will warn them and say that the house is haunted. Many people have heard strange sounds from it.  They will meet another patrol of 4 orcs, and probably kill these.  They were sent out as scout by the other Orc Lord. (Try not to make it obvious that they are a part of a warband, so they may destroy the village and you have a whole campaign going on.)

Chapter 11 - "Sonja Deason's House"
Finally at the house, they will see an old house, unhabited in 8 years.  Quite small, a cabine or something.  If they enter, they will hear all kind of strange sounds, this is to scare intruders of course.

If they search the house, they will under the bed find a board which can be removed, where there is a crystal bowl.  If this is touched, the Lesser Deamon will enter, from behind, striking the user with his horn, and give a loud snarl.

This will probably kill one or two of the PC, or at least give them some heavy wounds (or use fate points).

If they take him out, then the crystal ball will emitt a bright light and the image of an old and rather evil-looking man will appear, and will say : "This was your final test Sonja, now you truly are ready to conquer the world."

Chapter 12

If they return this Crystal ball to Alfred he will recognise the man, as an powerful deamonoligist, named Magnar Einaugen also known as the Summoner.
The kid may, or may not be satisfied, that's up to the GM, and if not, he may prove to be an powerful enemy in the years that are coming. (not in another 10 years perhaps - He will seek out Magnar an be his apprentice.


EXP :
	I gave each player(3-4) about 300 XP, but we played for about
	11 hours :-)


Monster Table:

Type			Trappings	Note	 M WS BS S T W  I  A CL WP
Average Orc Patrol 	Rusty sword (-1)	 4 33 25 3 4 7  20 1 29 29
Orc Sergeant 	        Sword,Shield,Leather(+2) 4 43 34 3 4 8  30 2 40 40
Lord Bhaxus             Breast Plate, Leather(+2),2H-Sword	
			Skills:	Dodge Blow.	 4 55 25 5 4 12 40 2 50 50
Lesser Deamon  Claw  + leather Horned Attack S5+Poison onve
						 4 50 42 4 4 5  60 2 89 89
Bear 		Hide (+1 Ar) Wounded(+1S,-5W)	 4 33 0  4 4 11 30 2 24 24




EOF!
