From longswor@tower.nullnet.fiTue Oct 24 15:31:20 1995
Date: Sun, 22 Oct 1995 22:16:33 GMT
From: Tuomas Pirinen <longswor@tower.nullnet.fi>
Reply to: The wfrp mailing list <wfrp@gojira.monsta.com>
To: list-whfrp@tower.nullnet.fi
Newsgroups: list.whfrp
Subject: WFRP: Albion Background

INTRODUCTION

The great island of Albion is situated between the Sea of Claws and the
Middle Sea. It is a land shrouded by myths and mists, and the scholars
of the Old World always write in their maps about Albion "Here Be
Dragons" with bold red letters. But what truly lies beoynd the mist of
the Northern Seas? Read on.

This article deals mostly with the main island, the Greater Albion,
while the Albion Islands as whole consist of Morien, Aeryn and Albany.
These other areas are only hinted at this text, when their relations
with the Greater Albion is discussed.

1.0 GEOGRAPHY

Albion is not especially large landmass when compared to the Old or New
World, but on this age of the world it certainly seems to be an endless
wilderness as far as the majority of the inhabitants are concerned.

Albion could be roughly divided in three parts: the Highlands, Lowlands
and the coastal areas.
The weather varies from place to place, but for most part Albion is
dominated by short, beautiful Summers and long, harsh Winters. 
Mists and fogs are exceptionally common, and this is how Albion has
earned it's nickname "The Isle of the Mists". 
Rain is also a common occurance, and it is usually very sudden. 


1.1 THE HIGHLANDS

The Highlands of Albion comprise an area of large hills, some rising
2000' or more. This area is situated in the Northern Albion, and is
commonly called Scathland due the inhabitants of this inhospitable
place. The hills run in irregular curved lines from south to north,
jagged and weathered. They have relatively large amounts of topsoil,
allowing humans and animals to scrape a meager living from the green
grass and other plants. Many great boulders of granite jut from the
landscape, some showing carvings from the bygone ages. These are held as
sacred places by the Scaths, who claim that the power of the Gret
Goddess of Earth, Danu, rests within these stones.
Roads are few and far between, and genrally they are thought to date
from the time of the High Kings. Now they are ill-kept and dangerous,
and constantly patrolled by Brigands and worse.

1.2 LOWLANDS

The southern parts of Albion are a bit more hospitable: The many rivers
of the South like Tams, Cwyrr and Shann allow agriculture to be
practiced here, and the tall hills protect the lands from the chilling
winds of the North. Sea is plentiful with fish, and naturally the
coastal areas are good places of inhabitations, especially the
riverbanks.

1.3 COASTAL AREAS

As with most large islands, the coastal areas are the the best known
parts to the outsiders. Their appearence explains in part why Albion
has a rather grim reputation. The coastline is littered with jagged
peaks and treacherous rocks, and the winds are uncommonly high. But the
river-mouths are perhaps the most fertile parts of Albion, and much of
the humans live here, and agriculture and architecture has risen to a
higher level than elsewhere in the Albion.
The coast is insanely hazardous to navigate because of the rocks and
winds, and this combined with the mists and fogs has kept Albion a
closed Island for many centuries.

2.0 FLORA

Albion may be a grim land of relatively few resources, but it is not a
Chaos Wasteland: it teems with a number of plants. 

Great stretches of the Lowlands are covered by great Oak, Ash and Elm
forests. These glades are often extremely ancient and for the most part
uncharted, as the humans usually go to these forests to hunt or acquire
timber.

Moss and lichen covers the Highlands of Albion, and some very persistant
variants of grass grow also there. 

2.1 THE ALBION OAK

The Albion Oak is a peculiar variant of the normal oak-tree that grows
throughout the Known World. One of the hardest and most endurable
trees of all, the Albionise Oak is much in demand for Castle gates,
War Machines etc. (GM regard the Albion Oak as T 9 wood that can take
double amount of damage.)

2.2 MISTLETOE

Mistletoe is a holy plant in the Religions of Albion, and many mystical
properties are connected with it. It indeed acts as a spell component
for the Druids of Albion, and has some minor healing capabilities. (GM:
if crushed in boiling water and inhaled by a sleeper it will double the
healing rate of a wounded.)
The supersitious Albionise claim that it will ward off Undead and
protect from evil magic, but this is hardly true. Druids do use a
specially prepared Mistletoe as an inrigient to their potions and as
spell components, and this might explain it's fabled reputation.

2.3 MUSHROOMS

Albion boasts one of the broadest choise of edible plants anywhere in
the world. Many mushrooms are used as a foor, but others are poisonous,
and some like the Mad Cap are reported to have mystical qualities.
Anybody with a suitable skills (like Herb Lore) does not have to even
take test during the autnumn to find food on any Forest of Albion.

3.0 FAUNA

The animals of Albion are of a hardy breed: used to the coldness of
Winters as well as hot summer days. For most part, the animals that can
be found in Albion are identical to the most fauna in the Old world, But
there are exceptions,  and some animals are unique to the land.
	
	
4.10 PREDATORS

4.11 WOLVES

Wolf is one of the most common predators of Albion. They always hunt in
packs, using great cunning and skill when stalking stags or cattle, they
make a great menace out of themselves. Luckily, they very rarely attack
humans.


4.12 HAWKS

Hawks of Albion are much in demand on other parts of the Known World.
Both Bretonnian Dukes or A-rab Emirs will pay exorbitant prizes to
acquire such beasts.
Their reputation is not in vain: Albionise Hawks are truly magnificent
creatures, being stronger, more enduring and intelligent than any 
hunting birds of the Old World. 
They are very rare and build their nests with exceptional cunning, so
many hopeful hunters have failed to ever catch even a single egg or
fletchling during their nesting perioids.

4.2 OTHER ANIMALS

4.21 DEER

Deers are quite common throughout the southern Albion, even though they
are very popular targets for hunters.
Deer are hunted by the nobility, both by the Clans and the Norran Jarls.
Deers makes an excellent meal, and thus hunting (where it is allowed)
and poaching (where it is not) are very common practices.

4.22 RABBITS

Rabbits are common throughout Albion, and they form a welcome addition
to the meals around the island. They breed prolifically, making it
almost impossible for hunters to really affect their numbers. They are
also preferred prey of the Albion Foxes.

5.0 FANTASTIC CREATURES

Though extremely rare, fabulous beasts like Unicorns and Great Eagles
still live in Albion as the legends dictate. There are also some
creatures that are unique to the lands of Albion, though one can not say
whatever these are mutations brought by Chaos or are they remanants form
some other forgotten time.

5.1 UNICORNS

Some Unicorns still live amongst the Forests of Albion, though most of
them have been hunted down by humans who belive their horns make
excellent charms of Good Luck. 
Unicorns are intelligent creatures that reseble horses, though they are
larger and stronger than even great Warhorses. The Winds of Magic float
through them, giving them a natural ablity to resist Chaos.

5.2 GREAT EAGLES

On the highest peaks of the mountaineous Scathland, there are few nests
of these magnificient beast. They range far and wide in a search of
prey, and while they do not hate humans, many a sheepherder has lost
some of his sheep to these birds of prey. It is however, very rare for
humans to try and shoot these predators, as many Clans regard them as
sacred animals. In addition, many Albionise legends describe how the
Great Eagles have helped Albion in the past.

5.3 GREAT HOUNDS

It is not known whatever these slavering hounds are a variant of the
Chaos Hounds or a creature of some other origin. They have a rough form
of a gigantic (often over 7 feet) canine, with burning flourscent eyes
and jaws which seem to spew flames. These monsters haunt the Highlands,
and are agressive in extreme. They are solitary creatures, and very
rare, and thus very often disregarded as a myth.

5.4 DRYADS

Dryads are spirits of the trees, which appear as beautiful maidens.
Once again, they mostly exist in the tales and myths, but the oldest
trees sometimes harbour these spirits. They are very capable
illusionist, doing their utmost to  protect their home trees from
destruction, as this would mean their own death in a few days. But if
they are certain that their trees are not in danger, they are often
helpful, guiding the lost amognst the woods with magical lights.


5.5 FAUNS

Called Satyrs by some, the Fauns are humanoidic creatures with horns and
hindquarters of a stag. Their upper torsos are very much like those of a
man, and crowned with a horned head. 
Even though they are called devils by most of the Grimoires of the Old
World, and though they are often mistaken for beastmen, they are not
evil creatures, though they can be mischevous and headstrong, especially
when drunk.
Since their ascendancy, the Norrans have hunted these strong creatures,
so now they are all but extinct.
Almost all Fauns have talent for poetry, singing and musicanship, and it
is said that on the ancient days the Faun Skalds entertained the High
Kings of Albion in the ages past.

6.0 DARK CREATURES

While the elder days when such monsters were much rarer are gone, the
Albion still harbours it's share of the Enemies of Man.

6.1 GREAT WYRMS

Great Wyrms are the most feared monsters of Albion, though nowadays they
are merely legends told by the Sklads of Albion. It is said that they
slumber deeply beneath the mounds of Albion, and will awake one day to
bring the end of the World. 
Legends tell that on the earlier days of the World there were many Great
Wyrms that either helped or prayed humans as their whim took them. The
great hero Scatha is said to be the last man who has met a Great Wyrm,
Scauldros, which he slew in his last battle. But this incident happened
at least four hundred years ago, and no proof of the Gret Wyrms have
been seen since then, except for some immense bones littering the
Scathland.

A dozen or so Great Wyrms still inhabit Albion, and they sleep, covered
by wild moss so that people belive them to be small mounds or hills.
For the unlikely event that the PCs would manage to find a Great Wyrm,
below are some details about these great beasts.
Great Wyrms are reptilians of immense size, strenght, and intelligence,
and are very similar to Dragons except that they do not have wings and
cannot fly. They breathe Mist of Ages that can put a man asleep for
hundred years, dreaming of a bygone legends.
Great Wyrms can both speak and cast spells, and this, in addition to
their considerable intelligence and vast physcial stength makes them
pratically invulnerable.

Great Wyrms are also strongly tied to the Warp, the source of all Magic,
and in a sense, they are multi-dimensional creatures that can not be
truly killed. In an extremely unlikely event that somebody succeeded in
slaying a Great Wyrm, his sleep would propably be forever hauted by
horrible nightmares.

6.2 TROLLS

Many Trolls live in the Highlands, and they prey upon the unwary
travellers. Some trolls live under the great bridges and attack the
passers-by as they cross the bridge and can not escape. 
Trolls are relatively common in Albion, and sometimes men from several
Clans band together to slay a particularily dangerous Troll.
Trolls usually hunt alone, but some small Troll clans have also been
reported to exist near human settlements, doubtlessly imitating humans
in their clumsy way.

6.3 GOBLINOIDS

No part of the Known World is truly free of the Goblinoid infestation,
and the same holds true to Albion. Tribes of Orcs and Savage Orcs,
alongside with numerous Goblin Slaves infest the more remote parts of
Albion. 
In general the Greenskin tribes of Albion are rather small, usually
100-500 members each, but this does not mean that they are not
dangerous, and during the last great Civil War the infamous Duke McDeath
used many Orc tribes as allies when he struggled to become the High King
of Albion.

The goblinoid tribes of Albion have a far higher percentage of Orcs than
those of the Old World, subsequently having only some 50% of their
numbers as Goblin slaves.

6.4 FIMIR

The great Fimir haunt the bogs and mires of Albion, ocassionally raiding
villages. The strange mist generated by these creatures is in part
responsible of the reputation that the weather of Albion has.
Fimir hide amongst their magically created mist and build their lairs
out of the rocks of the Highlands. From here they sally forth, capturing
humans for breeding, food and sacrifices. 
There are couple of dozen Fimir tribes in Albion, each ruled over by a
powerful Mearch, a female Witch-Queen. Their numbers have dwindled
lately due the strenghtening human nations, but each tribe is still a
fearsome opponent, boasting some 20-100 individuals each.
Fimir are humanoidic creatures, tall and well-muscled. They have tails
which they use as weapons. Apart from the singular female Mearch, the
Fimir are divided amongst Fimm, the warriors, Shearl, the slave Fimir,
and Dirach, daemon-friends and sorcerers.

6.5 FOMORIANS

Fomorians are an echo from a bygone age, a race of amphibian creatures
of roughly humanoid shape and size. They live on a desolate island near
the northern shores of Albion, called the Tory Island. Once, it is said,
they ruled the whole albion under their thrall, but the legends tell how
Scatha, the unifier of Scathland, defeated them and drove them from
Albion. Now they live in a bitter exile, as a vastly diminished people,
ruled by kings Erc and Balor. They raid Albion for slaves and sacrifices
for their unspeakable gods, but even these raids have become so rare
that most people dismiss them as a legend.
In appearence the Fomorians are hideous, stooped creatures from 6 to 7
feet in height, and relatively muscular. Mutations are extremely common,
and their totally evil and chaotic nature makes any attempts of
communication impossible.
Fomorians have a natural talent for sorcery, and their leaders often
have magical abilities, and their armies make a great use of crude
but effective weapons.

6.6 THE UNDEAD

There are no powerful Liche-Lords or Necromancers with hosts of Undead,
but suprisingly many (1%) of the burial mounds of Albion harbour Wights
and Wraiths. 
Ghosts also manifest themselves on Albion, and are very common when
compared to the Old World. Luckily, they are rarely evil, and most often
seek to right some bygone crime.



7.0 THE INHABITANTS

There are several tribes, clans, and peoples that inhabit Albion. It is
impossible to detail them all here, though many of the largest and the
most important groups are detailed. Albion has no real Elven or Dwarven
population, though the mystical race of Feys (see below) inhabit the
deepest forests and are thought to be close relatives to Elves by those
few who have seen them.


7.1 NORRANS

Of all the many tribes and clans of Albion, it is the Norrans who are
the dominant human inhabitants. They live in the lowlands, choosing the
most plentiful fields and meadows amongst these lands, and here they
build their towns and villages that are almost always protected by a
small keep or at least a fortified hill of Norran armed forces.
Norrans are of a foreign origin, a powerful Norse tribe that has carved
a powerful kindom with the force of their armies. They scorn and despise
the Clans of Albion, and in turn the Albionise hate their tyrants. But
the Clans are far too dispersed and have too many internal rivalries
that they have never been able to form an alliance to outs these
invaders.

7.11 DRESS AND APPEARENCE

Then Norrans are imposing men: they avarage at some 6' and womenfolk are
almost of same stature, about 5'8". Hair color ranges from blond to
fiery red, and their eyes are usually grey or ice-blue.
Norrans sport long beards, and these are regarded as a mark of a true
man. 
Due the heavy taxes carried form their subjects, Norrans are the richest
of the peoples of Albion, and this reflects on their way of dressing.
Those of Noble birth wear linen and silk on ocassions, though wool is
still used in most of their every-day clothing.
Normal Norran man wears wool pants and long fur jackets, along with soft
leather boots, and a weapon of some sort is considered as an essential
part of Norran's dress.
Women wear linen or wool dresses, and comb their hair in long braids
that flow down their back. A knife is usually carried by Norran females,
so even they can punish their slaves or defend themselves.

7.12 POLITICS AND POWER

The King of Tirnand is at least in theory the lord of all Albion.	
The pratice, however is different: Each Earl pretty much decides their
own politics, though they all pay the King's Taxes, and when it is time
to march to war, they flock under the King's banner.

While none of the Norran Lords dares to challenge the King's authority
directly, and indeed they all lack the strength to do so, they still
conduct many things that are Kings sole domain. 

Once a year, the King holds a meeting of all his Earls and declares any
new plans he might have. This usually involves new campaings against the
free tribes of Albion, or gathering a raiding fleets to patrol the
coastal areas. Every Earl is expected to contribute to these efforts
according to their status, and failing to do so would mean great loss of
face.

Norran castes include the Warriors (such as the Norran Legionneers
described below), the nobility (Jarls and king's knights), merchants
and a small but influental priesthood. 
The Norran artisans are rare and higly specialized, and include
carpenters that are extremely competent shipwrights, weaponsmiths,
blacksmiths and brewers.
Norrans are allowed to own slaves according to their status (varying
from 1 to 1000) and these miserable beings hold the lowest position in
Albion. Surprisingly few are of a Albionise origin. Most of them are in
fact captives from the many raids the Norran Longships have committed.

7.13 SOCIETY

Norran society is strongly based on the Way of the Clan: The Earl (or
Jarl as some would have it) is the absolute ruler, answerable only to
the king, and is backed by the warriors of the tribe, the Huscarls or
Legionneers as they are called these days.

Norran society is very pathriarcal: woman is expected to marry when
young and raise children. They have a degree of authority over the
household, but they must respect their husband as the master of the
family. The males are allowed to have concubine slaves, if their wives
can not give a birth to a male child.

Norrans are expansionists, and they constantly wage war against
independent tribes of Albion. This does not mean that they always fight
their wars themselves, as this would quickly drain their military power.
Rather, they use bribes and alliances with their armed might, and enjoy
nothing better than setting Albionise tribes against each other.

Norrans offer two choises to the tribes they have defeated: either to
let the Norrans divide their lands again (giving the Norran Nobility an
ample chance to reap a Lion's Share of the best lands) or only pay the
taxes and retain a modest autonomy over their ancestral lands. There is
a catch to the latter, of course. 
Each tribe that wishes to retain the right to decide it's own affairs
must send at least one male of 16-30 years for each household of the
Clan to serve as the bondsman (read:Cannon-fodder) in the Norran armies.
The service is for 20 years, with no hope for any position of leadership
or improvement in status. These bondsmen can, however, claim a part of
the lands they have helped to conquer. The ownership is transferred to
their original tribe, and thus some of these "Fallow Tribes" have become
quite powerful, even if the Norrans always get the richest pickings of
any conquest.
No member of a subjucated tribe is allowed to carry weapons, except if
he is part of a Norran military. As a weapon is a natural part of a
dress for many Albionise tribes, this in addition to other benefits
acquired by joining the Battle-Thralls has proved a dire temptation for
many a tribe.

7.14 MILITARY

Of all the inhabitants of Albion it is the Norrans who (unsurprisingly)
have the most advanced and regulated military system.

The backbone of the Norran military might are the Legionneers: these men
closely resemble the Norscan Huscarls, except that they are more
regimented. They carry spears and great iron or steel swords, and
extremely large shields that can be overlapped and locked in position to
form an almost impenetratable shield wall. They wear long chain
mails, double-layered and padded armour that reaches to their feet.
(GM:treat as 2 AP protection). Their favourite method of fighting is to
attack on a great wedge of steel that juts with spears. This formation
tends to grind any opposing infantry to dust, as once such unit gets
going it is almost impossible to stop. Legionneers wear distinctive tall
helmets, and each company has it's own standard or banner that is
defended fanatically.

Norrans favour great longbows as their primary missile weapon. The
longbnow is a devastating weapon, especially when used en-masse against
lightly armoured opponents in an Open Field Battle that the tribes of
Albion are so fond of.

Norran Lords clad in Chain-Mail and ride horses, or, very rarely,
Warhorses acquired in their raids. Preferred weapons are a heavy war-spear,
cavalry sword and a war-flail. Norran Cavalry regiments are their most
powerful shock troops, and while feeble when compared to the full
knights of the Empire and Bretonnia, they are still all but unstoppable
by the Albionise standards.

The subjucated tribal warriors form the lowest caste of the Norran
armies, serving as the foot-sloggers and skirmish screens. Norran kings
usually send a great swarm of these Battle-Thralls against the enemy
lines in advance to soften up their opponents and tire them out.

Norrans also use their great Dragon-prowed ships to make quick manouvres
of troops when they wage war near to the coasts. 
Norran King also has a limited supply of War Machines like Ballistas and
Siege Towers, along with the very occassional and often antique Cannons
that they have plundered from the ships of other nations.

All in all, the Norran armies are powerful enough that they would need
full attention even by the great military powers of the Old World.

7.15 RELIGION

Norrans follow Olric, the Father of War, and Valdin, the All-Seeing
Master of Fate. Both of these cults bear extremely close resemblance to
the Norscan cults, further supporting the view of most scholars that the
Norrans are of a Norscan origin.
Olric is a typical War God, requiring courage and prowess from his
followers, and promising little in return.

7.16 LANGUAGE

Norrans speak Albion like rest of the men of this Island Kindom, though
their lords use a distinctive dialect that is closely related to
Norscan. The percentage of people who can read and write is sadly small,
though most of the priest of Valdin are literate both in Norscan
runescript, Albionise Oghams and the common Old Worlder dialects.

7.17 ECONOMY

Norrans know two ways to increase their wealth: plundering and trade.
Their ships roam the Sea of Claws and the Middle Sea, preying upon the
hapless merchant ships. The King, however, also has a considerable
merchant fleet, and the Albion Oak, wool of the sheeps of Highlands, and
the iron ore are all much in demand. They also trade those stolen
merchantile they cannot use themselves, like luxury goods and cattle
that are too cumbersome to be drafted back to Albion.

The King of Albion has a mint that makes silver and gold coins,
alongside with the more common copper. The picture of the current Norran
king appears on the coin. The coins are very rough in appearence and
certainly not of a standard weight, making Albion a paradise for a
Forger or a Clipper. (+10 to any appropriate checks.)

The trade is still the norm amongst the commoners, however, and it is
very unlikely that they would have more than few copper pennies at any
given time. Most fairs and markets operate on the basis "I have a good
chiken here. Will you give that knife for it?".

7.2 SCATHS

There are many great tribes living in the Highlands, but almost all of
them share many common traits and traditions, and are thus called
Scaths regardless of a tribe. They do not fight amongst themselves as
much as other tribes, and because of this the Scathland is mostly free
of the Norran dominion.

7.21 DRESS AND APPEARENCE

The men often sport grand beards, and the color of their hair varies
from red to brown and black. 
Clothing is simple, reflecting the poorness of their land, but it is
utilitarian. The men wear kilts made from hides or more rarely from
wool, and is wrapped around the waist. In wintertime the Scaths wear
high boots with wool stockings, and add thick fur-capes to their dress.
They favour jackets made from wool.
Women wear wool dresses and the leather jacks along with fur coats. They
braid their hair and decorate it with beautiful copper combs.

7.22 SOCIETY

The Scathland is not a rich country. Men have always had to live
sparingly and without comforts that most Old Worlders could not do
without. This does not mean that the Scaths are a miserable people
-quite on the contrary in fact, as their merry celebrations and fairs
are some of the best entertaiment in all of the Known World, and often
last for many days. 
Women take care of the children and home, but Scath males value their
women-folk very highly. It is simply that the men regard raising
children and cooking as equal skills to farming and herding cattle.

A Scath tribe is always led by a Clanchief, who is supported by a
Warmaster and the Elder of the tribe. Clanchief is not a tyrant: all
really important decisions are voted amongst the clan, and traditionally
the Warmaster takes care of all military matters. Clanchief enjoys a
termendous status within the tribe, however, and it is very rare that
the tribe votes against his wishes. The Elder of the Clan is chosen from
the ranks of the old, and his/her part is to give the Clanchief advice
and lent his/her experience for the tribe.

Scaths raise sheep, goats and some cattle, and farm land even if the
Highlands are not especially suited to this. They are very efficient
when it comes to acquiring food, so many a farmer would be surprised how
much crops they are able to scrape from their poor soil.

Like all original Albionise, the Scaths are skilled artists, capable of
making stunnigly beautiful jewelry and decorations are sword-hilts. They
are adept at carving Oghams, the runescript of Albion, and their famed
Skalds recall their legends from these carvings.

The main thing that unites the Scaths is their past. The stories tell of
many heroes, though none was as great as Scatha the Berserker who united
Scathland and drove off the Fomorian invaders.

Scaths may be poor, but their hospitability is excellent. If they regard
their guests as friends, they will deny almost nothing from them, as it
is also the Scath way that a man gains status by giving things away.
They laugh easily, but Scaths also have a fiery temper, and once
angered, it is very difficult to calm a Scath down. Insults are
remembered for a long time and a Blood-debt must be avenged. In fact, it
is a Scath law to do so, and since Scaths enjoy fighting and physical
challenges, it is possible that anybody who has killed a Scath will face
a whole Clan of angry Warriors!

7.23 MILITARY

The Scath passion for fighting greatly affects their society and
culture. 

Their primary weapon is, and has always been a great Battle-Axe, first
made out of wood and stone, and nowadays an iron or even a steel weapon
which is wielded with a frightening efficiency and skill. 
While armour in the sense of a Bretonnian battle-armour is of course
vastly too expensive and rare, the Scaths use hardened leather jacks and
leggings, and employ thick, round wooden shields against enemies that
use arrows. During the War-time the Scath warriors are not allowed to
shave their heads until they have slain an enemy. Thus the hairiest are
the most eager fighters. Other typical habit for Scaths is to bring
their bagpipes to the fray. This has beeb known to panic more than few
foes!

There are few things more dangerous than Scath Berserkers. These are men
that are claimed to be possessed by the spirit of Mother Earth, the
Triple Goddess Danu Herself. They are at least as dangerous as the
vaunted Norsca berserkers, fighting with astounding fury and strength,
though with little skill and planning.

When the opportunity arises, Scaths also buid crude but effective
Chriots from the Albion Oak, and equip them with great wooden scythes.
The front of these Chariots is protected by thick wicker plates, and
each is drawn by two horses and carries a javelin-armed driver and a
picked warrior adept at fighting from a Chariot.

Even Scath females take part in their battles: they often accompany the
warbands, screaming encouragement to the brave, and hurling insults and
threats to anybody who shows signs of cowardice! Also, it is not
unknown for a Scath woman to become a Warrior, and these she-warriors
are respected as the chosen of Danu.


7.3 DARK TRIBES

Dark tribes are small coalitions of Warriors that band together to
follow their beliefs, which include rading, murdering and pillaging.
They are a Doomsday Cult of sorts, dedicated to prove themselves worthy
to their God with skills at arms.

7.31 DRESS AND APPEARENCE

The most notable aspect of their appearence, however, are their tattoos.
These marks are awarded each time a Dark Tribe warrior kills an
opponent. Thus the most formidable fighters are easily identified. Even
though their life is filled with constant battle, they scorn armour as a
mark of a coward. As the Warriors of the Dark Tribes can have belonged
to any specific Clan, thieir actual physical appearence varies greatly,
though the natural process weeds out any weak men.
Women are not enitirely unknown in their ranks, but extremely rare.

7.32 SOCIETY

The society of the Dark Tribes is unique amogst the Clans of Albion:
It is based solely on fighting. One might belive that these tribes would
have become extinct long since, but their dark religion seems to attract
a constant flow of young warriors from all over the Albion, so their
ranks remain solid.

As their religion dictates, the Dark Tribes must spread the gift of
Death to others, and because of this their society is quite
straightforward: they concentrate on fighting other tribes, attacking
whole villages at a time, an killing everybody, sparing only those to be
sacrificed.

Dark Tribes have no leaders, if their priests can not be called such.
They form a group of "brothers", and while they are not engaged in some
battle, they will fight amongst themseles, though their priest scorn
this, claiming they should reserver the "Gift of Death" to the infidels
and thus show their devotion.

While not fighting, the Dark Tribes practise their weapon skills, and
test themselves against pain. Ritual scarring and applying tattoos to
tender parts of a body is commonplace, as is walking on hot coals and
body-piercing with heated weapons. This all is performed in an eerie
silence, as screaming out in pain brings disfavour of their god, while
suffering in silence pleases Crom-Cruarch.

Dark Tribes do no farming, raise no cattle, or practice any artisan
skills that are not involved in making weapons. Anything they require is
obtained in their raids.

The priests are called "Drunes" or "Drows", and share many common traits
with Deamonologist and Necromancers, combining the worst qualities of
both.

7.33 MILITARY

Dark Tribe Warriors come from all parts of Albion and from any walk of
life, and thus they form a mismatched but effective fighting force.
Their greatest weapon, however, is fear. People of Albion regard them
with a supersitious fear, and this unnerving quality has won them many
battles. They are thought to be in league with Daemons, and (correct)
tales abound what happens to their prisoners.

One other thing that has strongly helped them in their past battles is
their habit of simply staying on the field until they are all killed or
their enemies have fled. There is simply no way to make these grim
warriors flee. They tire out and die just like other men, but they will
fight to the last breath of their bodies.

Dark Tribe Warriors do not charge into combat. Rather, they walk
silently towards their enemies, without uttering a sound, and
disregarding any arrows. They like to fight in the night-time, as they
claim that Crom-Cruarch grants them the ability to see in the dark, and
this reduces the effectivity of the enemy missile fire. Their black
Tattoos blend into darkness, giving furhther cover, and besides the
night time allows less opponents to flee as the approach of the Dark
Tribes can not be seen from the distance.

7.34 RELIGION

Dark Tribes follow the dread god Crom-Cruarch, the great Worm of War,
and they openly scorn other religions. Druids of Cantonbury find this
religion very disturbing not only because of it's violent nature, but
also because it bears a close resemblance to the forbidden cult of
Khorne the Blood God.

In part, this is not true: Followers of Crom do not revere violence but
Death itself. War is only one of the ways to gring the Great Liberator.
Famine, starvation or weapon, all these are equal in the eyes of
Crom-Cruarch as long as they will bring a painful death to a human. As
practical men, the Dark Tribes prefer war as the way of following their
god. But the essence of this religion is to bring an end to the
suffering and strife of Human life on this plane, allowing the soul to
journey to afterlife in hope of a better place under the watchful eyes
of Crom-Cruarch.

Crom-Cruarch demands an endless supply of human sacrifices, and to
accquire these, the Dark Tribes raid settlements regardless of the
strength, size or race inhabiting it: An Orc camp is just as good as a
fortified Norran enclave.

Crom-Cruarch is said to despise cowardice and a greatests gift from him
is to die in agony, without making a sound. The captives are given a
chance to reach immortality and favour in the eyes of Crom-Cruarch, for
Dark Tribes torture their victims to death, and urge these poor
individuals to suffer in silence so they will reach Crom-Cruarch after
their death.

7.35 LANGUAGE

Like other Tribes of Albion the Dark Tribes use the Cymr, or Common
Albion in their every-day dealings. The priests of Crom-Cruarch also
know the forbidden Arcane Language of Daemons that they use in their
rituals.



7.4 LYONESSE


Lyonesse are a "typical" Clan of Albion: followers of Danu the Mother of
All Things, brave warriors with great pride, and skilled artisans.
There are many Tribes similar to Lyonesse, and the same reference can be
used with a slight changes.

7.41 DRESS AND APPEARENCE

Lyonesse men favour heavy fur cloaks and leather jacks, as well as 
High boots. All free men carry weapons made form iron or stone, and
jewelry is worn by both sexes. 
Lyonesse have blond or black hair as a standard, and their eyes are
usually blue. Hair is worn in long braids and often decorated with metal
combs. Lyonesse Warriors are easily identified by their red tattoos
which form complex round symbols and cover much of their bodies.

7.42 SOCIETY

Lyonesse men and women must take the Test of a Titan before they are
regarded as full member of the tribe. According to the skills of a given
individual, this might be slaying your first enemy in combat, recriting
an epic poem, learning the first spell of a Druid, giving a birth to a
child or hunting down a Deer barehanded with a friend or alone
with weapons provided by nature. Before this the children are raised by
their mother alone, and after the child's ascendancy to adulthood father
will take his place as one of the parents. Men can, however, train their
children for the Test of a Titan for three hours a day if they wish.

The kings of the Lyonesse are chosen for a perioid of seven years only,
as the Lyonesse belive this prevents them from turning into tyrants.
After this time the king is killed in a ritual sacrifice. These
precautions make sure that only men or women who truly desire the best
for the Clan vie for this position, or at least that's the theory...

As their own lands are not suitable for raising cattle, Lyonesse plunder
their neighbours quite happily, and since they are a particularily large
and war-like Clan, they usually can acquire any meat they need.

Both men and women are allowed to have more than one consort, provided
that their mates are willing and they can uphold more than one
wife/husband. This is extremely rare, though some very rich and
influental persons have as much as four wives/husbands.

Lyonesse are taught to always speak the truth and always keep their
word. In fact, the honesty of Lyonesse is such that they don't even
build doors to their houses, as it is unthinkable that anybody would
steal from their neighbours.

Lyonesse are great artisans, and especially adept at working with gold
that is found in large quantities within the tribal borders. Lyonesse
artwork is much in demand all over the Albion, and unfortunately it has
also drawn the attention of the Norrans.

As almost all Albionise, Lyonesse claim that Artus, the legendary High
King of all Albion was originally Lyonesse, but there are other great
heroes who undobtedly wery Lyonesse: Cuchlain the Berserk, a man who
slew four-hundred and sevety on a single day is perhaps the best known,
and his held as a warrior ideal of Lyonesse.

7.43 ECONOMY

Lyonesse use iron bars as curruncy (as this has great material value
unlike gold and silver that are too soft for weapons or construction),
though trade is the norm. Lyonesse traders are very honest, but they
also ask a high prize for Lyonesse work. Considering their high standard
of their artisans, this is justified.

7.44 MILITARY

Lately the Norrans have made several attempts to conquer the Lyonesse.
Each time they have been repulsed, but at an increasing cost. Norrans
have not yet really used their full power, however and on the long run
they can hardly do anything else except lose.

Lyonesse equipment is well made, but since they rarely can afford steel
they are at great disadvantage when compared to a fully armed and
armoured warrior from Empire or Bretonnia.

Lyonesse still keep alive the art of fighting from a fast-moving
Albionese chariot. The charioteers are armed with javelins and the
wheels are equipped with sharpened wooden spikes to drive down the
enemy. it is said that once Lyonesse Queen, Bodicca, drove invaders from
sea back from the shores of Albion with such chariots.

Their choise of armour is leather reinforced with metal plates. Favoured
weapons are axes and swords, but shields and spears are also used, as
well as especially long spears for holding off cavalry. Hunters often
bring their bows at fray but these are not thought to be worthy weapons
for a warrior and thus there is no formal training for their use in
battle.

Lyonesse are well known from their dreaded war-javelins called 
These nasty weapons are studded with curled spikes that will rip
out enemy's entrail if they pierce body and are then torn from the
wound.(GM regard as javelins, but will cause S6 hit if drawn from a
wound -and the Lyonesse warriors will surely try.)

Great many Lyonesse are trained in Alba, and they form the elite core of
their war-parties. Thus the individual skill of an avarage Lyonesse
warrior is great indeed, but lacking any other tactics except "CHARGE!"
they are vulnerable to any enemy who uses cowardly tricks. (read:
strategy)

7.45 RELIGION

Lyonesse are devout followers of Danu the Mother Earth, but they also
worship Lugh the Sun God and Hu the Warrior. There are several Drudis
that have recieved their training in Cantonbury, near the Great Dolmens,
and they also select 12 young maidens who serve as the "Handmaidens" of
Danu and take care of Her sacred stone circle which no male can enter.
Most Tribes own an ancient artifact of a great religious importance, and
the Lyonesse are no exception. Their Druids guard the great Horn of
Plenty, which will is said to able to cure the sick and feed the needy.
It will not help cowards or those that do not have a genuine need, so
it's power is rarely challenged.

7.46 LANGUAGE

Unsurprisingly, Lyonesse speak common Albion. They write on animal hides
with the Oghams, the runescript of Albion, and there is a surprisingly
large percentage (25%) of the tribe who can read and write. This just
proves that it is a great mistake to regard Albionise as mere
Barbarians.

7.5 PICHTS

Pichts live in the dense forsests of the Northern Albion, and are openly
hostile to anybody who enters their home woods. Even though they are no
match for the mystical Feys, they are still perhaps the most capable
human forresters and scouts, and many people take their chances and come
seeking Pichts with many gifts so they might hire them. Usually this is
fatal.

7.51 DRESS AND APPEARENCE

Pichts are not technically advanced tribe. In fact, their appearence is that
of a savages: low, stooped, darkskinned men, dressed in leather
loin-clothes, brandishing wood and stone weapons.
Pichts are not tall men avarageing from 5' to 5' 6" and females are
genrally few inches shorter, but they are robustly built and very agile.
Picht have black hair and their eyes are deep brown.
Pichts sharpen their teeth with stone grinders, claiming this brings
them closer to their spirit animals. 
All in all, most outsiders would consider them little more than animals,
but there is more than meets the eye.

7.52 SOCIETY

Pichts live as hunters, with their women-folk taking care of the 
family while their men hunt for woodland creatures. Pichts never kill
more than they need for subsistance: 

When a Picht is roughly fourteen-years old, they are allowed to choose a
"totem-animal" whose habits and ways they try to follow as closely as
possible. A Wolf for example, is a very popular totem, as it's ways are
well suited for these hunters.

Pichts choose the best and the strongest of their hunters to act as a
Pack-leader, and during wartime the most suitable warrior is elected as
the War-chief or Claw-leader.

Pichts are openly hostile to any and all outsiders, including Pichts
from other Tribes. No missionaries nor traders have won their approval,
and all are ruthlessly killed and their boiled skulls, filled with
glowworms are placed on tree branches near their forest boundaries.
They don't do this because of hatred: rather, they want to keep their
forests "pure". outsiders simply bring disharmony and outlandish
technology that Pichts don't desire. Some men, however, are marked as
"holy" in the eyes of the pichts (usually in the form of some birthmark)
and these are welcome to their hidden camps.

Any arguments between Pichts are resolved by a single fight (which are
very rare). This discourages bickering and in-fighting as any offender
will face a death-duel with his opponent, and possibly with his/her
entire family.
Strong cannot really dominate the weak, as bullies who try to
strong-arm their way into power will simply be challenged again and
again, giving them no time to rest between the bouts.

Pichts may seem rather unintelligent to the outsiders, but in fact they
are well aware of any technological tools that others around them
use. They simply prefer their old ways, being happy and content with
their ages-old customs.

7.53 MILITARY

Pichts fight very rarely with outsiders who on the whole are sensible
enough to stay out of their forests, but they do fight short, brutal
wars with each other to establish borders and huntig grounds.
Lately Norrans have invaded some of their forests and after bitter
rounds of fighting, forced some of the Southernmost clans out of their
ancestral lands.

Pichts wear no clothing when they go to war, be it Winter or Summer.
This custom of fighting "Sky-Clad" is unnerving to say the least, and
the Pichts claim that this brings the blessing of the Gods.

Pichts still use stone wepons and short bows, but their great numbers
more than make up for this. A sling is also a popular weapon.
Pichts prefer fighting deep in their forests, and here they are all but
undefeatable. They use poisons provided by the nature extensively, and
taking foes by ambush is not seen as a cowardly action, rather a cunning
one.
Pichts like to herd their opponents to a forest opening and then soften
them up with slingstones and poisoned arrows, before charging with their
screaming masses to overwhelm the foe.

7.54 RELIGION

Pichts revere sprits of the forests, and some parts of their woods are
regarded as "holy", and no Picht enters these glades that are usually
marked by a great standing stone. They do regard Earth as their mother
like the rest of the peoples of Albion, but in their legends the great
Earth-mother is still sleeping and can not hear any prayers.

7.55 LANGUAGE

Pichts speak Cwyrrd, an ancient and primitive language that compromises
from guttural sounds and harsh jargons. Surprisingly, the Pichts have no
trouble at learning the languages of other peoples quickly - a further
proof that they are not as simple people as one might suspect.


7.6 FEYS

Feys are very rare these days, and getting rarer still. They are thought
to be close relatives to the Wood Elves of the Old World, though no
proof of this is known to exist, and on the extremely rare occurance when
one has a chance to speak to Feys they will say nothing of their origin.

7.61 DRESS AND APPEARENCE

Feys are in many ways similar to the Wood Elves of Athel Loren when it
comes to the appearence and the way they are dressing. Shorter than the
Elves in general, they still are taller than most humans, being some 6'
tall in genral. They have pale skin with a Greenish tint, and their eyes
are invariably deep green. They have delicate, aesthetically beautiful
features, and hair that is usually either jet black or Blonde, even
though Feys with green hair have been reported. They have slender bodies
and their bones are somewhat lighter than human's, but they are not
weak, and their reactions are far superior to those of a human.

7.62 SOCIETY

The Fey enclaves are ruled over by the lord or lady of the Glade.
This is an elective position, though the choise is made for a life and
the Feys live for a long time (GM: at least 500 years)
The Feys live in a very close relationship with nature, and they are
friendly with allmost all denizens of the forests.

A Fey seems to be naturally able to pick the task most suitable to him
or her. If somebody is adept at singing or carving wood, other Feys
don't seem to mind even if they do not contribute to gathering food or
building the cunningly hidden abodes of the Feys. Quite on the contrary,
such individuals are given their share of the food and shelter.
Thus a Fey community is far more varied and culturally colorful than one
might expect.

Those few humans that have visited their arboreal homes claim that Feys
live by eating flowers. This is nonsense of course, while it is true
that some edible flowers are regarded as a great delicacy by the Feys.
They are capable hunters and gatherers, but they take great care that
they will not tax their enviroment more than it is necessary, and they
hold special ceremonies to calm the spirits of the the animals they have
slain.

The King and Queen of all Feys live on an enchanted island of Avalon
that no mortal man may enter without their leave. The royal cople have
always used the same names, and because of this they are thought to be
immortal and may legends are woven around them. But
perhaps it is just a Fey tradition to name all rulers with same names.
The rulers of the Feys are known as Titania and Oberon, and all Feys
recognice their authority.

7.63 MILITARY	

The social structures of the Fey settlements are not rigid, and this
also reflects on their ways of war. Virtually every resident of a Fey
community is capable of aiding in the defence of their homes, in the
extremely unlikely occurance should any hostile force penetrate their
woven enchantments. Feys are great archers, and their ability to move
silently and unnoticed amongst the woods is startling. Thus it is no
surprise that Feys prefer guerilla warfare, as their few numbers and
relatively weak bodies would leave them helpless in the open field
battles that some Albionians, like Norrans, prefer.
One interesting note about the Feys is that they cannot touch cold iron.
Thus their weapons are almost always made of Wood, or more rarely, of
stone. A Fey wearing an armour is almost unheard-of. There are, however,
few suits of magical armour that are light as a spidersilk and harder
than any steel, but Feys have long since forgotten how to make these,
and thus they are so rare that it is unlikely for any human to ever
glance upon such mail-shirt. (GM: treat as 4 AP armour.)
Some Fey lords are reported to carry presumably enchanted silver swords
that resemble no other weapons in the Known World. (GM: regard these
weapons as swords that completely ignore any armour points, magical or
otherwise.)

7.64 RELIGION

Feys revere nature and the great spirits of the Woodland. In many ways
their "religion" is much alike the Old Faith or the cult of Danu the
Earth Mother, but to them Nature is not a personified god, but rather an
abstract consept of a silent worship.
They have no religious seremonies or holy days. Rather they gather to
some places where they claim nature is "Closer" than anywhere else and
meditate in silence.


7.65 LANGUAGE

Feys speak their own, secret language, Elaithan, which is very closely
related to Eltharin. A character that can speak Eltharin can understand
Elaithan on successful Int test, though any really complicated
conversation is impossible, and the Feys seem to prefer using Albion in
their affairs with the outsiders.



8.0 SOME PLACES OF INTEREST



8.1 AVALON, THE ISLE OF MISTS

To the west of the main Isle of Albion, north from the shores of Morion,
lies the enchanted Island of Avalon, protected by the Illusionary mists
of the Fey magicians. Here the High King and the Queen of Feys, Titania
and Oberon, hold their court.
Navigating to Avalon is next to impossible (-100 to any Navigation
attempts) and it is not wise to seek the Feys without a good reason -the
treacherous waters around Avalon are full of wrecked Norran Longships,
as the Norran Kings have always craved for the legendary riches of the
enchanted island.
Over the years more and more Feys have fled the main Isle of Albion to
find peace and happiness here, amongst their own kin, protected from the
violent humans by the enchantments of the Isle.

8.2 OLFRICHAM, THE CAPITAL

Olfricham (or Lowdyn as it was known before the Norrans) is the greatest
of the settlements of Albion. Inhabited by well over 30.000 inhabitants,
it is the seat of the Royal throne of Norrans. The Norrans sail down the
great River Tams that flows through the City, and their Longships
terrorize those parts of Albion that are not yet under the Norran Yoke.
Here is situated the great temples of Valdin and Olric, as well as the
Castle Towyr, a scene for many great tragrdies and political decisions.
It is a formidable castle, fully an equal to any great fortress of the
Old World.
Most of the citizens are not Norrans, as this was previously Albionise
city. The Norrans still man almost all positions of authority and
importance, as is befitting to their dominant status.

8.3 CANTONBURY AND THE STANDING STONES

Just south of the Scathlands stands the greatest group of Dolmens in all
Albion. Near this revered place rest the main temples for the Gods of
Albion. Here the Druids of Albion come to learn their craft and spells,
and in here much lore from the bygone ages can be found, carved in
Oghams to the stone tablets that are guarded jealously by Druids. Here
rests a great stone, called Bolg Danu, the navel of Mother Earth.
It is said that  it will wail out when the new rightful High King of
Albion stands on it, and that the Tribes will flock to this new ruler
who will bring a new age of Peace to Albion. Needlesss to say, Norrans
do all in their power to cultivate this belief, as without this sign
there is little hope for any ambitious Clanchief to gather an alliance
to oppose them, and such a direct intervention by gods is unlikely in
the extreme.
The lord of Cantonbury is called the Archdruid or Magus. So long as anybody
can remember, a mystical man called Myrddin has sat on the great
wicker-throne of the Archdruid. Some even claim that he is same man who
acted as the advisor of Artus the High King of Albion ages ago, but
surely they are mistaken... 
It is very rare for Myrrddin to announce anything, but when he does,
whole Albion listens and obeys, and his control over almost all druids
is complete. Norran lords tolerate him, partly due fear, and partly
because they belive (correctly) that any attack against Myrrddin would
unite whole Albion against them.

Just to mention few of the many gods whose ways can be learned here:

Danu, the Earth Mother
Lugh the Sun God
Hu, the god of warriors
Bila, the God of Death
Ayrin, the Goddess of Love and Beauty
Ogmios, the God of Literature and Poems

(GM: this is the best place in Albion to learn any academical skills
like Read/Write, and it is possible to acquire some unique skills like
Arcane Script - Ogham.)

8.4 THE RUINS OF CAMALT

The legends tell of a Golden Age of Albion, when the last High King,
Artus Dragonheart ruled all of the Albion from his great castle Camalt.
Legends tell that Artus wielded the great sword Caliburn (literally
"Cutsteel") in combat, and that only the rightful High King of Albion
can use the full potential of this Sword. Many other treasures, along
with this mighty weapon, are said to be found in the ruins of Camalt,
and many men have searched for it, though no-body has been successful.

It is interesting that practically all tribes of Albion repeat the same
tale of the High King Artus, though his name varies slighty (for
example, he is called Agam Rund in Morien), and this lends weight to the
belief of scholars that Camalt and Artus really existed once. But
whatever the truth of this matter is, brave adventurers must first
discover the ruins of Camalt.

8.5 ALBA, THE SCHOOL OF THE ARTS OF WAR

On the mountains of Albion, known as the Black Sisters, is located the
school of Martial Arts and Strategy, Alba. It is commonly regarded as
the best place in Albion to learn the ways of war.

Curiously, many the teachers are women: 
This is an age-old tradition, and the men of Albion put a great trust on
their ancient ways: This has proven to be a great success, as any new
students have already been psyched to obey these wise women by their
tribe's Skald.

The teachers are literate women who teach the ancient secrets of war
from the sacred tablets of stone, while the more physical excercises are
left to old Weaponmasters, students who have decided to stay at Alba.

Both male and female students are accepted, but the initial tests and
the training is just the same for both sexes, putting women at great
disadvantage. On the other hand, the few female warriors of Alba enjoy
great respect all over Albion.

Just getting to Alba is a test in itself, as the school is located on a
high slope of a Mountain, with no apparent path to the gates. The
applicant must climb the treacherous cliff, while the students throw
rocks at him/her, and he must fight with a mountain-wolves if he/she
happens to be real lucky.

(GM: Here one can learn any Combat-Orientated skills appropriate to
Albion, and many of their more exotic weapons as well, provided that the
applicant can prove him/herself worthy.)

9.0 RUNNING AN ALBION CAMPAING


For my own campaing, the battle waged against Norran oppressors is the
driving force for PCs, and a theme that gives a great deal of purpose
for their actions. 
The most important thing, though is to set the right athmosphere to this
campaing: steel weapons and armour are extremely rare, and money based
on noble metals is unknown in many parts of Albion. Sorcery is feared
and hated, and to most men their honour is more valuable than their
life. 
The land is poor, and many people suffer for the yoke the Norrans have
laid on Albion. The weather is cold and misty, and rains are more common
than a sunshine. The countryside is littered with Dolmens and standing
stones, ancient ruins and burial mounds of the heroes of old.
Yet there is nobility and courage in the people who live there, and if
compared to the Old World, Albion is mostly untouched by Chaos. 
The art of Albion is stunningly beautiful, as are the songs and tales of
their Skalds. In fact, the Ogham Script is at least as old as any piece
of literature that can be found in the Old World. 

All in all, Albion can be a refreshing change from the turmoils of the
Old World and give some different goals for the PCs than the neverending
war against Chaos.

9.2 THE DRUIDS

In may ways, the Great Druid of each Clan is the supreme voice of
authority to it's members -above even the King! They oversee all
ceremonies and rites, right from helping the newborn to the coronation
of the king. As their position gives them an excellent chance for
polictics, many of them forget their oaths of overseeing the balance and
try to hoard influence over the Clan. Druids of Albion are thought to be
even closer in their faith to the original religion of the man than the
Druids of the Old World, and they worship Nature's personification, the
Earth Mother, rather than the abstract Nature itself.

9.3 SKALDS

Skalds hold a very special position in Albion. They are the Bards and
Minstrels of the Celtic peoples, the lorekeepers of the history of
Albion. They enjoy vast prestige and are thought to be fit for advisors
for Clanchiefs and Kings. Every Skald is a living link to the past, and
if any outsider is patient enough, he can learn a great deal from these
minstrels.
There are two kinds of Skalds: Court minstrels and Wanderers, and Both have
different roles. The Court Minstrels perform religious songs and record
the tales of each particular Clan and it's families, while Wanderers go
from town to town accumulating stories and entertaining commoners with
new excating tales.


9.4 THE CULT OF MOTHER EARTH(THE TRIPLE GODDESSES)

As  the dominant religion of Albion the cult of Mother Earth deserves a
closer look.

DESCRIPTION:

There are many gods and spirits in the Albionise pantheon, but one
Goddess stands above all of them, and is worshipped by almost all Clans:
Danu, the Mother Earth, the Triple Goddess. She appears either as a fair
maiden, the Girl of Spring. In this aspect she is called Blodeuwedd.
Her second aspect is that of a grown woman: either as an authorative
mother or a mighty she-warrior. In this aspect she represents the
Summer. This asepect is known as Morrigu.
Her last aspect is that of an old hag, the evil witch and the bringer of
Death. This is her sinister form that represents the fact that all
living things must perish. She is called Ceriwen, and she represents the
Winter.

Danu is mother of all living things, and all other gods are said to be
her children also. All mortal women are made to be her likeness, and she
is as fickle and changeing as the nature itself. She is both gentle and
cruel, mother as well as the bringer of death. All life is but a game to
her, and her Druids say that is is pointless to struggle against her
since in the end you are part of the nature, and defying her you harm
yourself.

ALIGMENT: Neutral.

AREA OF WORSHIP: Pratically all of Albion, except in the kindom of
Tirnand, the realm of Norrans.

TEMPLES: Both Sacred Groves and great stone circles, as well as dolmes,
the standing stones, are common throughout Albion. The power of the Old
Days is much stronger here, and Druids have 1.5 as many magic points
within these sacred places. 
Here in Albion the chains of these holy sites form unbroken lines
throughout the lands, and perhaps because of this the land is relatively
free of the touch of Chaos. Any case, marriages, coronations and any
other cermonies are held on such sites as this is belived to bring good luck.

FRIENDS AND ENEMIES: Cult of Mother Earth is dominant Cult of Albion,
and has friendly relations with other Albionise Cults. Her aspect of
Morrigu, the woman of Summer and War is openly hostile towards the Cults
of Norrans and the Cult of the Dark Tribes, Crom-Cruarch.

HOLY DAYS: The holy days of the cult are the summer and winter soltices
and the spring and autnumn equinoxes. There is also a day in the
calendar, called Saimhann, when the dark side of the nature is unleashed
and the dead have a holiday. On this day the men of Albion bar their
gates and do not venture out.

CULT REQUIREMENTS: Druids of the Earth Mother must be Human, but there
are no other restrictions.

STRICTURES: All Druids take a vow that prohibits them from harming the
nature or killing animals for other reason than in self-defence or for
food. In addition the Archdruid also gives individual Geas to each
druid, which can be very bizarre, like ordering them never to show their
faces again tin public, never keeping their left eye open or always
speaking in rhymes! Usually these strictures are less severe, and often
they are even helpful in some time of the future.

SPELL USE: The druids of Danu the Earth Goddesss use spells in the same
way as other magic-users. A Druid may use elemental magic, Petty Magic,
and Special Druid Magic. In addition there are many spells unique to the
Druids of Albion.

TRIALS: Depending of the time of the year the Goddess sets different
tests to her followers. On Summertime the trials are of a physical
nature, like taking part in a war, while the trials set on winter are of
a more academic sort and often rather morbid, like holding a burial
ceremony. Trials on springtime could include seducing a young person of
the opposite sex or setting a serious argument between two tribes.

BLESSINGS: Blessings of Danu tend to be bizarre, as all life is a game
for her, all living things are her children, and all return to her in
the end. Suitable blessings could be skills from ranger skill chart or
sudden increases on statistics.


(C) Tuomas Pirinen 1995
-- 
"I have some powers of Travel and communication."
-Dardalion at the siege of Purdol.
