From ZZA95GGL@sheffield.ac.ukWed Oct 25 14:10:42 1995
Date: Tue, 24 Oct 1995 00:15:16 +0100
From: "G.G.Lepper" <ZZA95GGL@sheffield.ac.uk>
Reply to: The wfrp mailing list <wfrp@gojira.monsta.com>
To: wfrp@gojira.monsta.com
Subject: WFRP: Dolgans

First, as a warning, I'm thousands of miles away from my copy of 
SRiK, and I've had to delete all the Dolgan postings (gulp!), so I 
have no idea what languages Dolgans speak, or who they worship... so 
take it easy on me folks...
  
  First the age/skill  chart.  Since the Dolgan lifestyle is a difficult 
one, they learn early and die early.
  16-20  +1
  21-30  +2
  31-40  +1
  41-50  +0
  51+     -1
  Since they have a rigidly defined culture, all Dolgan's first skill 
is Ride.  There is no other options.  All remaining skills can be 
rolled randomly based on Careers.  Note, though, that Dolgans are 
expert horsemen, and if they enter another career that offers Ride, 
and they take it, the skill is doubled, for example, in relation to 
risk tests.  This is only for Dolgans, and they may only do it once.
I had a table of skills by career class, but I don't feel like typing 
it out...
  
  Warrior Basic Careers
01-10  Bodyguard.  The Dolgan is employed by possibly rich merchants 
  or rich Kislevians, for their savage reputations.
11-15  Labourer.  The Dolgan has left his society in search of jobs 
  near the Wheatlands, etc.  Could possibly mean he has been an 
  outcast of his village, or had to leave for certain reasons.
16-30  Mercenary.  Dolgan's are employed and highly respected  by
   Tsars as mercenaries to intimdate to   great effect.  Many Dolgans
   see this as a honorable employment, and a   way of making money. 
   It is also an outlet for the adventurous who  want to see the 
  world, and play an important part in Kislev defense.
31-40  Militia.  Often Dolgans near the Wheatlands often join the 
  local militia to make money and provide much needed expertise.
41-45  Noble.  Often a headman or leader, or possibly a close 
  relative to one.  This is different than the career in the book. 
46-55  Outlaw.  Dolgan's often find themselves raiding caravans, 
  settlements, and become outlaws.
56-60  Pit fighter.  Young Dolgans captured in battle or crime, find 
  themselves as slave Pit fighters.
61-70  Protagonist.  Warlike, many young Dolgans set off on their 
  own, and live on what they take by force.
71-80  Soldier.  A Dolgan employed by Kislev. Has Animal care and 
  ride automatically 
91-100  Warrior/ Horse archer.  A Dolgan who fights and dies for his tribe.

Note:  Trappings should be carefully looked at.  Crossbows, etc. 
should not be allowed.

Dolgan Horse Archer
  The finest horsemen in the world are the Dolgans.  The Dolgan Horse 
Archer is amongst the best of the Dolgans themselves.  Responsible 
for keeping the tribes safe, many are sought to be employed in the 
Tsar's forces, so great are their skills.
WS   BS   S T  W    I    A  Dex  Ld  Int  Cl  WP  Fel
+10 +20   -  -  +2 +10       +10
Skills:
  Animal Care
  Marksmanship
  Orientation
  Ride
  Trick Riding 
Trappings
  Shortbow
  Quiver with 20 arrows

Dolgan Noble/Chief/etc.
  Responsible for the tribe during war, etc.
WS   BS   S T  W    I   A   Dex   Ld   Int   Cl   WP  Fel
+10 +10   -  -  +2 +20  -    +10  +20    -   +10 +10  +10
Skills:
  Dodge Blow
  Luck
  Orientation
  Ride 
  Speak additional language
  Strike Mighty Blow
Trappings
  Finest Dolgan clothing
  Additional horse 

Note:  Dolgan society is flexible.  Many Dolgans are "cross trained." 
Exit careers for any Warrior are any of the careers listed as exits 
under the career itself (which the GM approves of), any careers on
the Dolgan warrior table, and Dolgan Lancer.  Any careers not above,
the Dolgan must find someone to train and pay 200 Exp points for
a career listed under the normal Warrior class table.  Any career
outside, costs 400, to represent the role of cultural norms, mores, 
and restrictions imposed by their lifestyles.

Trappings for all Dolgan Warriors:
  Hand Weapon
  Sturdy Warm Clothing
  Horse with Saddle
  Spear
  1d6 Starting Gold Pieces (instead of 3d6)

Rangers-  Rangers play an essential role in Dolgan society, and 
coupled with Warriors, make up the majority of careers in Dolgan 
society.  With no further ado...

Ranger Basic Careers

01-15  Bounty Hunter.  Many Dolgans are employed because of their 
  incredible reputation for persistence and savagery.  Criminals fear 
  Dolgan bounty hunters more than most Greater Daemons.  (Well, not 
  really, but they are scary blokes!  Look at their haircuts!)
16-25  Caravaneer.  Some Dolgan tribes assist merchants in overland 
  trade, instead of raiding it.
26-35  Herdsman.  Pretty self explanatory.  If you need more info, 
  post me privately.  You should have some idea...
36-45  Hunter.  As above with herdsman.
46-55  Muleskinner.  Hmm...seems like a caravaneer.
56-65  Outrider.  Often employed in the tribes themselves, caravans, 
  and the Tsar's army.
66-70  Prospector.  Many Dolgans search the once Dwarven occupied 
  mountains for forgotten wealth, since no one else dares...
71-80  Trapper.  'nuff said...
81-100 Horse Archer.  As in the Warrior class.  This allows the Horse 
  Archer to choose from both Warrior and Ranger basic classes.

Note:  Rules for career exits for Rangers are nearly the same as for 
warriors.  They can exit to any acceptable career listed on the 
career exits for their career, any on the Dolgan Ranger Basic Career 
Chart, and Horse Lord.  Any non Dolgan Basic Ranger Careers cost 200, 
and any others cost 400.

Note:  Trappings for Dolgan Rangers are identical to Dolgan Warriors.

Caravaneer
  Many Dolgan's find that cooperating with trade can be far more 
lucrative than risking their lives raiding it, and often find 
themselves as escorts for the trade.
 WS   BS   S  T   W    I   A  Dex   Ld    Int   Cl   WP   Fel
+10  +10   -   -   +2 +20  -   +10  +10 +10     -      -     +10
Skills
  Animal Care
  Drive Cart
  Evaluate
  Follow Trail
  Orientation
  Ride Horse

Rogues
  Rogues in Dolgan society are very rare!  Due to the close knit 
society, stealing from family is a bad idea.  However, some Dolgans 
find themselves seperated from their families while young, and learn 
all kinds of naughty things over in the big cities.  Most Rogue 
careers are considered very shameful by traditional Dolgan society.

Dolgan Basic Rogue Career Chart
01-15  Entertainer.  Not always considered badly.  Depends on what 
the career is.  It would be a good idea for the GM to choose one.  
Somehow Pavement Artist seems unlikely.  Entertainers are similar to 
bards or minstrels...
16-20  Gambler.  Rare.  Some Dolgans wander into cities at a young 
age and become embroiled in the seedy nightlife.  These are drawn by 
the lure of easy money in games of chance.
21-45  Pedlar.  Some Dolgans wander about between relations in 
different tribes, peddling much needed goods, for a very small 
profit.  While looked down upon, there services and goods are 
sometimes badly needed.
46-65  Rustler.  Yep, this is considered a very valuable career.  
Taking horses and goods from the weak, and returning them to the 
strong, the Dolgans.  Seen as brave warrior types striking a blow for 
the Dolgans.  No Drive Cart, Animal Care 100%.
66-85  Smuggler (Dolgan Smuggler).  Dolgans are sometimes used to 
sneak goods into Kislev passed the border guards.  These are 
specialists at avoiding the authorities.
86-100  Thief.  They are unaccepted in society, often killed if 
discovered as thieves.  They have no Sec Lang or Sec Signs, and no 
Silent Move Urban or Conceal Urban , but Conceal Rural instead.  
General thieves only, unless trained in cities otherwise.

  Thieves in Dolgan society should be very rare.  If a character 
wants to play a Dolgan Rogue, make him an outcast and let him wander 
about with Imperial citizens in the Empire, or Kislev, where he is 
more appropriate.

Dolgan Smuggler
  Often merchants don't feel that they should have to share some of 
their profits with the local authorities and often employ locals to 
help in the circumventing of exciseman.  For the caravans bringing 
rare and splendid treasures from Cathay and Nippon along the 
dangerous route, many turn to Dolgans to help them pass through the 
borders.  Also, some seedy shifty looking individuals, maybe looking 
quite cadaverous in appearance want something discreetly moved, and 
also turn to the Dolgans.  Dolgan smugglers are good, but one must be 
careful, for sometimes, they cost more than the taxes would...
WS   BS   S T   W    I   A  Dex  Ld  Int  Cl  WP  Fel
+10 +10   -  -   +2 +10  -   +10   -      -     -     -      -
Skills
  Drive Cart
  Conceal Rural
  Follow Trail
  Orientation
  Silent Move Rural
Career Exits:  all normal Smuggler career exits are invalid!  No 
pilots, no seamen!  It's common-sense!
Trappings:  sorry, no row boats!

Note:  The rules for career exits are similar to Warriors, and 
Rangers.  They however can only enter or exit through Dolgan Basic 
Rogue Careers at 100 Exp points, and out through listed career exits 
from their careers at 100 Exp also.  Other non Dolgan Basic Rogue 
careers cost 200, and anything else 400.

Trappings:
  Hand weapon
  Clothes
  2d6 Gold pieces

Dolgan Academics
  Dolgan academics are quite rare, but often essential.  While most 
Dolgans are needed to protect and feed the tribe, a few, for some 
reason or other, turn to less martial pursuits.

Dolgan Basic Academic Career Charts

01-05  Artisan's Apprentice.  Most often a leather worker or 
blacksmith.  With Dolgan reliance on manufactured goods, this career 
is becoming less important.
06-15  Druid.  Fairly rare. Some GM's might disallow this.  I think 
that ragged half mad Dolgan hermits' as strange and mysterious wise 
men sought out in times of need as quite interesting.  
16-35  Herbalist.  Essential to the tribe.  Note however, no Sec Lang 
Classical or Guilder, but 50% chance of Prepare Poison.
36-55  Initiate.  To whatever god the Dolgan's worship.  I use a 
Dolgan version of Taal.  If someone has any ideas, post it to me.  
However, no Read/Write, no Scroll Lore, and no Sec Lang Classical.
Herb Lore and Identify Plants instead...
56-75  Seer.  Important to the tribe.  To maintain a certain degree 
of equality, some ideas are thrown to the god's to be answered.  And 
the seer, usually a deviant or eccentric type, an outsider within the 
tribe, is used as a channel.
76-90  Trader.  Similar to a pedlar.
91-100  Wizards' Apprentice.  An apprentice to a Hedgewizard type or 
an Elementalist.  

Note:  The rules for Academic career entries and exits is exactly 
identical to the rules for rogues.

Basic trappings for all academics
  Sturdy Dolgan Clothing
  Horse
  Whatever the DM feels neccessary to represent their place in the 
society.  Amulets and talismans for initiates, seers, and wizards's 
apprentices etc...

  I apologize for all the space these postings have  taken up.  I hope 
they add some sense of culture to the game.  My intention was to 
alter some of the basic careers to reflect culture in the game, that 
I felt has been neutered in the name of simplicity.  Odd that all 
these various cultures and races have mostly the same careers, 
spells, etc.
  I felt that with the changes in the Warhammer world, that I'd 
better post it while the Dolgans still have a place.  I also saw a 
lot of interesting stuff on the Dolgans posted recently, and thought 
I should include it while theres an interest.  
  I will post a few more Dolgan careers tomorrow.  I don't want 
people to see fifty postings by "G. G. Lepper" when they turn on the 
computers.  One last thing...
  ...what do you think?  Good, bad.  I will respond personally and 
probably privately to everyone who responds...
