Date: Fri, 27 Oct 1995 03:27:05 -0700
From: Chris Clements <chris@atmnet.com>
Subject: WFRP: Festival of Might

Josh Martin is the original creator of the festival.  I have compiled
his original work and added a few things to his idea.  I realize this
is very rough, but as I have no plans on really working on this project
I thought I would send it to the list and see if anyone might be
interested in adapting it to their own campaigns... It makes a great
backdrop for an adventure set in a town or village.

--The Festival of Might--

Warriors of great strength fight the terrible foes of the Empire.  From
terrible mutants to wicked goblins, these brave men and women risk their
lives in defense of their homeland.  The cult of Ulric and its warriors
were always in the forefront of the battle, and rarely did they lack
opponents.

Unfortunately, it was during these rare times that the Ulricans lost
some of their combat readiness, growing soft while their hidden enemies
grew more powerful.  Training in itself could not simulate the wide
variety of challenges the warriors might face on the field of war.  The
clerics, after contemplating the problem, came up with a workable solution:
the Festival of Might.

The festival has grown from a small gathering of the faithful of Ulric to
a popular contest that is held for all warriors every four years in
<Town/City> (Josh chose Bogenhafen, but it could be easily set anywhere within
the Old World - Middenheim would be a good place).  All the warriors who
wish may enter the festivities (for a small entrance fee), and many do, 
travelling from as far as Kislev, the Tilean-City States, and the last 
festival had a contestant who came all the way from Araby!

The contestants in the festival compete in a series of tourneys where they
accumulate 'points'.  The more points a warrior has the higher his or her
standing.  The top ten contestants of all the tourneys must battle one another
to be the 'Master of the Festival'.  The master is awarded with a gold
medallion and also given a unique item that is chosen by the high priest
of Ulric (which would be Ar-Ulric) from the temples' treasures.  Other
benefits of being the master include a reception in their honor and the
respect of those they challenged and beat.

With the festival comes other, non-sanctioned competitions.  These events
can range from the harmless (best story teller, loudest shouter, etc.) to
the downright deadly (illegal pit-fights to the death, test of endurance
versus poisons, etc.).  Some of these events turn out to be even more
popular than the planned games.

Not all people of the Old World like this event.  Three main groups always
show up at the festival to protest it.  The first group are members of the
congegration of Shallya, who detest all the unnecessary violence that comes
along with the pagentry.  The next group was organized by a halfling agitator,
which is mainly full of halflings and physically unfit academics, who protest
that the festival is nothing but an insult to them (they often carry signs
that have catchy slogans such as 'Might does not make right' or 'Small people
have rights too!') - they are the most cruelly mocked by the warriors 
involved in the tourneys.  Lastly are a small number of warriors who also
protest
the contest, saying that it is rigged every year (almost all of these men
and women are of the faith of Myrmidia, which has strained relations at
best with the cult of Ulric).

One group always shows up to the tourney, not to compete or protest, but to
keep all the rowdy fighters in line.  They are the Knights of the White Wolf.
The reason there is little trouble is due to there watchful presence.  Even
the stupidest beserker realizes he would be no match against twelve heavily
armored knights.

+Suggested Sanctioned Events+

-Hovel throwing-

This event is actually not as odd as it sounds.  The warrior is drafted into
teams for this competition, and the selected group must throw a small
wooden structure.  The group that throws it the farthest gets the most points.

-The Mallet-

Mallets padded with a heavy cloth are used in this event.  What this tourney
entails is basically two inividuals taking turns hitting one another over
the head with the mallet.  The winner (the person who stays conscious) must
challenge a winner from another section of this game.  This goes on until
there is only one person who has won.  (Note - the mallets, if used for
an extended amount of time, will break at the handles; this is a 'safety'
feature).

-A Test of Arms-

A straight test of a mock-combat, one-on-one.

-Hurl the Snotling-

Just recently added to the festival was this 'unique' game in which
a contestant must throw a snotling after spinning around in a marked
area three times.  The snotling is wrapped in metal weights and cushioned
by hard leather.  A metal chain comes from the center-most weight, and is
used to throw the creature.  The farther one throws the poor gobbo, the 
more points he or she accumulates.

-Fight of the Fists-

A straight street-fighting or wrestling match.

-Reflexes-

The individual is required to go through a series of dummies animated
by ropes and pulleys.  The dummies have paint-soaked padded weapons, any
hits will show up on the persons clothing.

-Weight-lifting-

The contestants try to lift common heavy objects.  The person that lifts the
heaviest and most unwieldy object wins.

-Archery-

A simple archery contest, like the one in PBT.

-Strategy-

Contestants have to play a strategic wargame against another opponent.
(If you really want to simulate this, get out WFB.)

-Pain Resistance-

The individual competing in this event must grasp an enchanted stone
that causes pain which increases with each moment that passes.  The longer
a person can grasp the stone the higher the points awarded.

--
Chris Clements
chris@tncnet.com

"Vale, mi amice."

