From: noel welsh <welsh_nh@ee.uwa.edu.au>
To: wfrp@gojira.monsta.com

          The Hot Tub Inn & Surrounds v1.0
          By Noel Welsh
          
          This document is copyright Noel Welsh, 1995, and may not be
          reproduced in a commercial setting without permission from
          the author.
          
          ------------------------------------------------------------
          
          De Satz's Square
          
          Located in the Artisan's Quarter, De Satz Square contains a
          natural spring which supplies water to the surrounding area.
          The spring has an elegant fountain built around it, and is
          known as Maiyir's Font. The water flows into large stone
          basin, in which inhabitants of the Square bathe (when
          they're not at the Hot Tub), and draw their water from.
          Surrounding the Square are the houses of the local
          residents. Three buildings may be of interest to travellers:
          The Hot Tub Inn, Ragnok Teln's Smithy, and Elka's
          Apothecary.
          
          
          The Hot Tub Inn
          
          
          Physical Features
          
          The Hot Tub Inn is a five storey, half stone, half timber
          structure. A polished wooden sign, with the Inn's name and a
          faded picture of a man relaxing in a steaming tub hangs
          outside.
          Inside, the Hot Tub Inn is well appointed, if somewhat old.
          It is furnished with dark wood and brass fittings throughout
          the bar and rooms. The ground floor consists of a mid-sized
          common room, with a bar against the far wall. Behind the
          bar, a door leads to the back rooms, which in turn lead out
          to a rear courtyard where deliveries are made. However, few
          travellers notice these details of their first visit to the
          Hot Tub. What they do notice is the massive fireplace which
          dominates the centre of the room. This stove heats the Tub
          upstairs which gives the Inn its name.
          Upstairs, of course, is the Hot Tub. This large wooden tub
          is filled regularly from Maiyir's Font. A large reservoir of
          water hangs above the fireplace below, and hot water can be
          drawn up to the Tub. Additionally, the chimney from the
          stove through the centre of the tub, heating the water
          within. 
          A leather cover keeps the heat in until the water reaches
          sufficient temperature to coax the patrons upstairs, whilst
          wooden slats prevent the patrons from burning their feet on
          the chimney. A pipe, stoppered with a large copper plug,
          drains to the sewers. Small windows around the room help
          remove water vapour and stop the ceiling from rotting.
          As might be guessed, the Tub is of Dwarven design. In fact,
          is was built by Ragnok Teln's father. Dwarven runes
          identifying the artisan can be found along the base of the
          Tub.
          Above the Tub are the rooms, which get steadily smaller the
          higher one travels. On the third level, half the level is
          occupied by the landlord and his family. The remaining 3
          rooms are available for rent. These rooms are approximately
          4 yards by 5, and sleep 2 comfortably, 4 (or more) if you
          like each other.
          The fourth floor rooms are about 3 yards square and sleep 2.
          The fifth floor rooms are 3 by 2 cells, and only sleep 1 on
          a straw pallet.
          
          
          The Landlord and Family
          
          Rudolph Grasser
          The publican of the Hot Tub Inn is Rudolph Grasser (sorry, I
          have no originality). Rudolph is a big man, about 6"1', who
          carries a fair bit of weight on his large frame. He has a
          moustache, a perpetually worried expression, and is bald.
          Rudolph is not an imaginative man, nor is he given to
          extremes of emotion. He prides himself on the cleanliness
          and service of his Inn, and it is his constant hard work
          which keeps the Inn in good shape. He is always polite and
          stays out his patrons' lives as much as possible.
          
          Catchphrases:
          "I trust you're enjoying the meal", as he delivers another
          round of drinks.
          "I hope you don't mind me asking, I know it's none of my
          business, but would you know about the strange goings on
          around here?", when the PCs stagger in, covered in blood,
          after Nuln is afflicted by Chaos apparitions.
          
          Ingrid Grasser
          Rudolph's wife is a plump woman of 38, about 6 years younger
          then her husband. Her raven hair is turning grey, and her
          face is showing some signs of aging, but she still retains
          much of the beauty of her youth.
          When Ingrid married Rudolph at the age of 17, she was taken
          by his handsome features, and stoic resilience. She dreamed
          he would take her away from her boring life. 28 years later,
          the dreams have faded, and Ingrid has fallen into a routine
          life. She cooks the food, helps clean the inn and never
          finds time to stop to wonder what life might have been like.
          Ingrid is living life through her children, who she has
          encouraged to be adventurous and independent, much to their
          father's disapproval.
          
          Catchphrases:
          "Will that big oaf never stop eating? If he knew how much
          trouble went into that sauerkraut he might stop to savour it
          a bit more!"
          "Renhkard, I want you to do something with your life, I
          don't want you to waste it."
          
          Renhkard Grasser
          Age: 20
          Rudolph's oldest son inherited his stature and good looks,
          but not his even temperament. His mother's constant nagging
          to "do something with your life" has created an highly
          ambitious young man, fond of adventure and willing to do
          whatever he feels necessary to get his own way.
          Unfortunately for Renhkard, the Inn offers little in the way
          of excitement or potential. Renhkard has turned to crime as
          an easy way to satisfy his goals. He has become the leader
          of a gang of local youths involved in burglaries and con
          jobs. So far his success have been limited, but as he gains
          in confidence and experience, Renhkard is trying larger, and
          tougher, jobs.
          As might be expected, Renhkard has a very poor relationship
          with his father, who he sees as a pathetic nobody. Rudolph
          suspects that Renhkard is getting up to something, but in
          his typical stoic manner, has done little to dissuade him.
          He has no idea his son is a criminal.
          In casual conversation, Renhkard is witty and lively. Deeper
          conversations will reveal his self-obsessed nature.
          Renhkard's great failing, which will prevent him from
          progressing far in his criminal activities, is that he
          disdains the boring planning which must go into complex
          operations. Thus his heists are limited by his quickly
          waning enthusiasm.
          
          Catchphrases:
          "Sigmar's spirit, it the old bear again. Here to remind me
          of my blasted duties at his stupid little inn!"
          "This plan has got to work, lads! Now you know that
          merchant...um...Acrimboldo, the one with the spicery? Well I
          overheard him yesterday..."
          
          Jutta Grasser
          Age: 19
          Jutta resembles her mother, with dark hair and beautiful
          features. She is second only to Renhkard in her mothers
          affections, and has never be constrained by her mother from
          doing what she wishes. She has grow up spoilt and willful.
          She demands, and gets, expensive cosmetics and jewelry.
          Ingrid is trying to give Jutta everything she desired as a
          child, whilst Rudolph has never been much involved in the
          upbringing of his children.
          Jutta main goal is life is to be courted by as many men as
          possible. It's not that she considering marriage yet, it's
          just that she enjoys ordering them around, and playing them
          off against each other. Jutta enjoys getting her suitors to
          purchase expensive gifts for her, and getting them into
          fights against each other. She will attempt to seduce anyone
          who is good-looking and wealthy, patrons to the Hot Tub
          included.
          
          Catchphrases:
          "No, I'm sorry, I can't assist you, I feel quite faint."
          "If you really love me, you will do anything for me. I want
          you to prove that you really love me."
          
          Klaus Grasser
          Klaus died of the pox at the tender age of three. Ain't that
          sad.
          
          Catchphrases:
          "", and you can quote that.
          
          Jorg Grasser
          Age: 16
          Jorg has the characteristic facial features of his family.
          He is of medium height, and quite pudgy, as he does not
          partake in sports due to his short-sightedness. By the time
          Jorg was born, Ingrid was too busy mothering the other
          children to pay much attention to him. Thus Jorg has grown
          more to the liking of his father, quiet and calm. Jorg helps
          out a lot around the inn, and is the likely successor to
          Rudolph.
          
          Catchphrases:
          "Yes Sir, your horse will be ready in a few minutes. I'll
          see to it myself, Sir."
          "Two steins of the house draught? Yes, Sir.....That's 20
          pennies. Thank you Sir."
          "Oh, I'm so sorry! I...um...didn't realise you
          hadn't...excuse me...um..."
          
          Erich Grasser
          Age: 13
          Erich is the result of brief affair between Ingrid and a
          guest at the Hot Tub. Erich has dark blond hair, and a
          smaller stature then his brothers. Ingrid knows who fathered
          Erich, and the neighbours love to gossip about him. Rudolph,
          typically, hasn't given the possibility much serious
          thought, and it doesn't bother him particularly.
          Ingrid has rejected the child from birth. The only attention
          she pays to Erich is to criticise him. Luckily for Erich,
          Rudolph was becoming more interested in the children by the
          time he was born, so Erich is not the wreck he could be.
          Still, the kid has problems. He has low self-esteem, and is
          given to misbehaving to attract attention.
          
          "Mutter! Mutter! MUTTER!" How's my German?
          "No! I don't want to! I'm not going to do it! Leave me
          alone!"
          
          Herr Hund
          Erich's mangy mutt, a mongrel with brown and black fur, is
          given to slinking around the Hot Tub, whining at customers
          until it gets chased out, and annoying the neighbours. The
          dog is a wimp and runs away from anyone it doesn't know,
          unless Erich is nearby, in which case it bristles and
          growls. Rudolph is the only person besides Erich who likes
          the mutt. The rest of the family do their best to ignore it,
          and boot it if it comes near.
          
          Catchphrases:
          What do you think? "Ich bin Herr Hund. Woof! Woof! Woof!"
          "Whine! Whine! Whine!" Big sad eyes at the new guest eating
          the pork sausage.
          "Here you go you poor dog..."
          "CHOMP!"
          "Hey! Come back with my breakfast you!"
          
          
          Life at the Inn
          
            The day starts just before dawn. Ingrid goes shopping for
          bread, meat and other foodstuffs, usually taking Renhkard if
          he's not hung over, or Jorg. Meanwhile, Rudolph supervises
          deliveries from the brewer, checks on the stores and lights
          the fires for breakfast. Erich does menial tasks if he's in
          a good mood, and steals some food for the esteemed Herr
          Hund. The hired help arrives to assist in serving tables and
          cooking.
            About a half-hour after dawn the first customers,
          merchants and the like who must be up early, start to filter
          in for breakfast. Ingrid returns from the shopping and all
          the Inn's energy is focused on preparing breakfasts.
            After an hour, the Inn is starting to fill up. The crowd
          consists of merchants and storekeepers, and the various
          guest who are staying at the Inn. Serving maids are rushing
          about and Ingrid is yelling at the clod who just split soup
          on the kitchen floor. The good Herr Hund is trying to sneak
          into the common room and Jorg is trying to boot him when he
          does. The young hopefuls are waiting for Jutta to put on an
          appearance, Renhkard may just be sneaking in after getting
          drunk last night and Erich is trying to hide so he doesn't
          have to do any work.
            After breakfast, the crowds go to their business, and a
          small army of maids descend on the common room to clean it,
          and rearrange the furniture for lunch. The rooms upstairs
          are also cleaned. Rudolph checks the stocks, and Ingrid or
          Jorg goes to purchase any items which are low. Jutta will be
          receiving young men, or be chaperoned about town. Renhkard
          will be trying to sneak out so he can meet with his gang.
          Preparation for lunch will start.
            Following the lull after breakfast, the Inn once again
          becomes a madhouse when the University bells signal noon.
          Tradesmen and merchants flock to the Hot Tub for an eel pie
          and a couple of steins of the house draught. The scene is
          similar to breakfast, with even Renhkard helping out.
            After lunch, the common room is again tidied up. Rudolph.
          Renhkard and Jorg will take a couple of buckets and start
          filling up the reservoir and Tub for the night. After
          filling the tub, Renhkard will share a few drinks with his
          friends and most likely disappear for the night. Jutta will
          return from town with her new presents, and retire to her
          room until dusk.
            At dusk, the big fire in the common room will be lit and
          dinner commences. The regulars, or Tubbers as they call
          themselves, arrive about an hour after dusk. Erich will be
          sent to bed. Jutta will come down for dinner, and then lock
          herself into the Tub room for an hour (part of her beauty
          regime). After she has left, Rudolph will declare the Tub
          ready, and the Tubbers, middle-aged artisans and merchants,
          will retire to the Tub for some drinks and conversation.
            After the last patrons have left, around 10 on weekdays or
          12 at the weekends, the Inn is tidied up and prepared for
          breakfast. Renhkard is responsible for cleaning the Tub, but
          more recently he has been paying Jorg to do this for him.
          Finally, an hour or two after the Inn closes, the hired
          hands leave, and the Grassers can retire to a well earned
          rest.
          
          
          Prices
          PCs short of cash can work at the Hot Tub. An extra helper
          or two can always find work, for bread and board, if nothing
          else. The hours are long, but it pays 7/- per day, or a spot
          in the common room and meals.
          
          Rooms
          All rooms contain bedding, and a wash-stand. The third
          storey rooms have a small table and chair. Cramming more
          people then is comfortable into a room cost and additional
          50% per person.
          3rd Storey: Rooms go for 20/- per night, or 6GC per week.
          4th Storey: 15/- per night, or 5GC per week.
          5th Storey: 5/- per night. Normally not rented for longer.
          Common Room: 2/- per night. Fleas are free.
          
          Food
          Meals are provided in the good old German style; large, and
          filling. Dumplings are a common addition to many dishes.
          Medieval cooking tends to be full of spices.
          The dishes given below are simply examples of what is
          available. Ideas are welcome.
          Note that most dishes are served either with dark rye bread,
          or wholemeal bread.
          
          Soups
          Cabbage Soup: Cabbage and little bits of sausage. 2/-
          Beer Soup: Always a favourite. 2/-
          Kidney Soup: Kidneys, milk and egg yolk. Ugh. 1/-
          
          Fish
          Fish Stew: Chunks of fish with onions and cream. 4/-
          Eel: Baked or fried. 2/-
          Fish Cakes: House specialty, heavily seasoned. 2/-
          Fish Pies: Eel or fish with cooked vegetables in a pie. 3/-
          Fish Dumplings: Eat on their own, or add to soup. 1/-
          
          Meats
          Jugged Hare: A young hare, served with vegetables. 5/-
          Roast Pigeon: A roast pigeon stuffed with liver and heavily
          seasoned. 4/-
          Sauerbraten: Braised and seasoned topside. Good. 4/-
          Pork chops with plums: Exactly what it says. 3/-
          Bones: A bone covered with left over meat. 10d each.
          
          Vegetables and Salads
          Sauerkraut: Cabbage fermented with salt and juniper berries
          and then fried. A house specialty. 1/5d
          Potato Salad: Boiled potatoes with olive oil, onions and
          garlic (Not the fake white mayonnaise you see today). 10d
          Lentil Salad: Cooked lentils with parsley, onions and sour
          cream. 1/-
          Steamed Vegetables: Whatever is in season. Usually potatoes,
          cauliflower and carrots. 8d
          
          Deserts
          Apple Pudding:  Cooked apples with a sugar and egg mixture.
          1/-
          Baked Locksmith's Apprentices: Small children...No, they're
          actually prunes stuffed with almonds and baked. 4d each.
          Fruit Kuchen: Seasonal fruit baked into a type of pie. 1/-
          Sultana Cake: Usually very good, but occasionally Jutta
          bakes this to torture her beaus. Avoid when she does. 8d per
          slice.
          
          Drinks
          The Famous House Draught: Brewed on the premises. Thick and
          dark. 10d per stein.
          Lager: Brewed at one of Nuln's many breweries. 8d per stein.
          House Wine: Cheap red wine, often mistaken for vinegar. 3/-
          per bottle.
          Brettonian Wine: Mostly red, with the odd white, imported
          from Brettonia. '05 was a good year. 25/- and up per bottle
          
          Plot Ideas
          Well, my original intention was to simply make the Hot Tub a
          place to stay for the PCs. If you want to base adventures on
          it, here are some ideas:
          1. The shady stranger with a past who comes to stay. What
          did they do, who are they running from and can the PCs help?
          2. Catch the thief. Somebody is stealing from the Tub. It
          could even be Renhkard.
          3. Help the family. If your group likes heavy emotions,
          throw the Grasser family into crisis. Renhkard is caught
          thieving, Rudolph is going broke paying for Jutta's
          extravagances and Erich runs away with Herr Hund. You could
          even make Jutta pregnant if you wish. Can the PCs bring the
          family back together? Can they stop Herr Hund from coming
          back with Erich?
          
          
          Ragnok Teln
          
          Elka
