From: <clay@incite.com>
Subject: [WFRP:1445] Law, Chaos, Good, Evil, Neutrality

The question has been asked "Can Neutral demons exist?" and much discussion
has been written lately about the relationship of Law and Chaos.  However,
answers like Ian's (below) miss the mark.

The short answer  to "Can Neutral demons exist?" is no.

Chaos is the natural state of the Universe.  Demons, like their Gods, are
simply outward manifestations of the Universe trying to make sense of
itself.  There is, somewhere in the Universal mind, a desire towards Order. 
It requires Order to manifest something from Chaos, to image a God of
Disease, for example, or a Demon of Pleasure.  While there is sufficient
energy in the Universe to manifest Order, Chaos decreases and a structured,
physical Universe evolves.  But at some point, the energy required to
manifest Order lessens, and Chaos returns.  Entropy breaks down the physical
order into component parts, returning everything to Mother Chaos.

Order, therefore, is also a natural state of the Universe, albeit weaker and
more fragile than the Mother Chaos.  Order is the mortal daughter of Mother
Chaos, destined to spurt forth, blossom, build, stagnate, decay, and die. 
In the Universe, there is nothing else but these two. This is Natural.

Good, Evil, and Neutral are not manifestations of the Universe, which
consists solely of Chaos and Order, but manifestations of the Temporal Mind.
 Good and Evil are completely artificial, completely unnatural, completely
intellectual, totally temporal.  Universal things are beyond the simple
names of Good or Evil.

Neutrality is the absence of the artificial, the acceptance of the Universe
as it is, the surrender of the Intellect to the Natural.  The Neutral does
not name, for that which is named is lost and intelligible.  The Neutral can
do what must be done, unfettered by the names of Good or Evil.

In this way, the Neutral attempts to achieve Balance, a comfortable
existence with the Universal Chaos and Order and the Temporal Good and Evil.
 But remember, Neutral is still Temporal.  It is merely the tool the
Temporal Intellect uses to achieve Balance, to mimic the Natural, to become
more Universal.

The Demon, a Universal being, cannot be Neutral anymore than a Man, a
Temporal being, can be water.  It is simply not its Nature.  A man can study
water, understand its properties and tendencies, and mimic its behavior, but
he cannot change his Nature and become water.  The Demon can study Neutral,
understand its properties and tendancies, and mimic its behavior, but it
cannot change its Nature and become Neutral.

What of Neutral gods then?  Or Good or Evil gods?  What are these? 
Unnatural, temporal, artificial, intellectual.  These gods are
manifestations of the Intellectual just as the true gods are manifestations
of the Natural.  They exist only because the Temporal Intellect names them. 
When the Temporal Intellect ceases to name them, they cease to exist.  The
Universal truths return.

--
Clay Luther
clay@incite.com

----------------------

From: Thomas Oesterlie <toaster@pvv.unit.no>
Subject: [WFRP:1473] Chaos, and The Order of Things

I sent herr Philosopher Luther's letter on Chaos to my dear friend herr
Baron Valtor Zimmerman von Schunberger. The baron is a practitioner of the
Art of Necromancy, and devotes his time to the research of Death. I've
included the Baron's reply to the Philosopher's letter for your reference:

---Begin inclusion---

Greetings Herr Lord Archivator. Blessed by thy name, and hallowed be thy
family and dearest. I received your most enjoyable letter the other day. As
always, it is a joy to hear from you. You included a discurs of Chaos by
herr Philosopher Luther, wishing to hear my thoughts on the subject. In my
recluse I have grown unused to setting my own thoughts to paper, but I hope
you will forgive my ineptednes as I will piece down some scattered thoughts
on the topic.

Although herr Philosopher Luther's letter about the Order of Things was one
of the more marvellous litterary pieces I have read recently, I am afraid
that he is somewhat wrong. To be quite frank: he is totally wrong.

We are all of Chaos. Thus far herr Philosopher is correct. Chaos is another
Realm of Being, and Magick is the art of opening gates to this other Realm.
My own research has led me to draw the conlusion that Man is able to
manipulate Chaos because we are of Chaos. Not of Chaos Matter, but the
Spirit that we all possess, is an immortal being of Chaos.

The Spirit is immortal. As Man dies, his Spirit - now devoid of memories
which are part of the Physique - lingers on in the Material Realm for a
time. Confused by lack of memory, it begins it's journey back to whence it
came: Chaos. 

It is in these few minutes or - sadly - only mere seconds, that a Master of
the Art of Necromancy, may bind the Spirit to the body, creating Life in
spite of Death in the Being.

When the immortal Spirit returns to Chaos, it's Deity creates a personal
purgatory for the Spirit, protecting it from other denizens of the Warp.
Spirits of unbelievers are prayed upon as they are unprotected. Thus you can
see the why we believe in Gods.

Speaking of Deities, I've come to the conclusion of my view of Chaos. The
question was: can Neutral Daemons exist, and are Daemons just beings of the
Chaos waiting to become Gods. I am - unlike herr Philosopher Luther, I
believe - not a practitioner of the dangerous Art of Daemonology, but I
believe I have enough evidence to state that Gods and Daemons are the same,
yet unlike. They are both denizens of Chaos, just as the Peasant and Emperor
Heinrich are both denizens of the Material Realm. But Gods and Daemons are
not the same, just as the Peasant and Emperor Heinrich are not the same.

In the same way as a Peasant may become Emperor - as Sigmar once did - may
the Daemon become a God.

Whether or not a Daemon may be neutral or not is an easy question to answer.
As herr Philosopher Luther beautifully explained: Good, Evil and Neutral are
all moral judgments made by Man, not a state of Being. Daemons are Beings of
Chaos, as Men are Material.

Your devoted friend in Life and Death
Baron Valtor Zimmerman von Schunberger

---End inclusion---

Thomas Oesterlie
toaster@pvv.unit.no
Maintainer of the Warhammer Archives
-------------------------------------------------------------
PVV - The Software Workshop, University of Trondheim, Norway

----------------------------

From: matthew@te.rl.ac.uk (Matthew Bassett (Ext. 6571))
Subject: [WFRP:1495] Re: Chaos, and The Order of Things (and a mention of law).

This parchment recently arrived at my domicile. Since it seems to be
pertinant to the ongoing discussion I have taken the liberty of
posting it to the list. I believe the author to be one Heironymous
Lentz, a rather arrogant and unpleasant Physicians Apprentice I once
argued with in Nuln. Hopefully the parties mentioned will bear him no
ill will for his missuse of them, for I would not like to think that I
had been partly responsible for his transformation into "a pool of
animated slurry", which he seems to believe Daemonologists capable of.

--- Included Message ---

Salutations Colleague Matthew,

Whilst carrying a message from Nuln to Altdorf recently, I became
somewhat befuddled in that famed coaching Inn, The Leaping Leper (yes
I know it is somewhat off the traditional route from Nuln to Altdorf,
but the landlord has a very warming daughter). In my state of merry
befuddlement I came to realise that it would be prudent to examine the
contents of the message I was carrying for old fuddle chops von
Schunberger (why Master Bosch goes to the trouble of purchasing
cadavers from him for study, I shall never know, but even after
covering all that distance in Ox carts, they always remain more fresh
than you would expect). It is, after all, never wise to carry messages
from Necromancer to Daemonologist, without first determining whether
they will turn you into some undead minion, or a pool of animated
slurry - even if both the old fools are drooling into their cups.

Imagine my surprise when it turns out that von Schunberger can not
only still manipulate a pen sufficiently well to scribe some words,
but that the old loon can actually string a sensible arguement
together!

It seems that he is holding a discourse with Herr Luther (you know,
the mad old philosipher, who alledgedly dabbles in daemons) about the
nature of chaos. I immediately thought of you, and our similar
discussions. You will be glad to know that I have managed to condense
my thoughts and will publish them shortly, should Master Bosch not
find my manuscripts and use them for lighting the fire again.

Before I publish, I thought I would give you one last chance to refute
the product of my superior intellect with your paltry protestations:

THE NATURE OF THE UNIVERSE

The natural, terminal, state of the universe is the formless swirl of
chaos, in many ways less "chaotic" than many imagine, being merely a
fluid of primal matter with no organisation or potential for such. We
are many eons away from such a fate however, and the universe still
contains much of the vital energy with which it was imbued at its
creation.

When first created, the primal matter of the universe took on many and
various forms, charged as it was with a vitality we cannot imagine. At
first most of these forms were simple, and can be considered merely
eddies in the primal fluid.  However the early universe was a place of
potential, and no possibility was left unrealised. Thus it was merely
a question of time and probability before the universe expended
vitality on impressing more complex forms upon the primal fluid.

These complex forms were the first creatures of the void or the
warp. The intellects of these creatures were as varied as the forms
they took. Some were completely mindless, and either dissolved back
into the void or remained as their forms determined. Some had great
power of reasoning, a fraction of whom did seek to return themselves
to the void that had birthed them. Others sought greater organisation,
and amongst their creations is Space as we know it and the creatures
that lie therein. Still others sought not only to return themselves,
but all of creation to the primal fluid.

Those entities that we know as gods are the most powerful of these
creatures of the void - those that had a hand in creating Space. I
have placed these entities into three broad classes, but it should be
noted that these are not distinct groups, merely a convenient
classification of a continuous range.

The Gods Of Law

The Gods of law are those that sought the greatest intricacy of
organisation, and tried to impose a completely deterministic reality
devoid of free will. They do not, as some believe, try to prevent all
change and impose stasis. Instead they attempt to enforce upon
creation laws that entirely regulate it's behaviour, so that nothing
that is not part of their design occurs. Some of these laws are
extremely complex and may not be understandablle by we mortals, but
none the less, these laws rule against our free will.

The Gods Of Balance

The Gods Of Balance seek a less regimented reality in which their
creations may express free will and determine their own path through a
world arbited by consistant laws. They seek to provide a framework
within which mortals may grow and interact, sometimes creating
unpredictable behaviour, which seems to please them as much as the
formation of order: such as the creation of nations and governments.

The Gods Of Chaos

Finally there are the chaos gods, who seek to completely dissolve all
organisation back into the primal fluid. The chaos gods are a paradox
in that, in order to achieve their objectives they must maintain
sufficient organisation to be able to affect reality. Many of these
gods had a hand in the creation of Space, some even in the creation of
races, such that they might achieve their final ends. Thus Chaos must
compromise with some order, in order to return the Universe to it's
primal form.

The above gives a brief outline of my reasonings on the matter, and is
sufficient, I believe, to give some familiarity with the nature of
reality without excessively confusing such a miniscule intellect as
your own.

My regards for your future, sordid and worthless though it may be, and
I hope the embarrassing boils have gone down, although I still believe
you should have let me lance them.

Yours, etc.

	Soon to be famous Philisopher, Heironymous L.

--- End of Included Message ---

Well, I'm sure Heironymous L. would welcome any criticism of his
'master work', as I seem to recall him referring to it as.

Many regards,

_______________________________________________________________________

Matthew Bassett                               mail: matthew@te.rl.ac.uk
Rutherford Appleton Laboratory                 tel: +44 (0) 1235 446571

"Where's the nearest information super layby?"

-------------------------

From: Thomas Oesterlie <toaster@pvv.unit.no>
Subject: [WFRP:1524] The Creation, Gods and Spirits

I received this most disturbing letter today. My dear friend Baron Valtor
von Schunberger has replied to the letter Matthew Basset sent to the
mailinglist the other day. I hope that Matthew can forward this message to
Heironymus Lentz, bringing him my apologies for the harsh language the Baron
displays.

---Begin included message---

Greetings Lord Archivator. Blessed be thy name, and hallowed be thy family
and dearest. While highly interesting, young Lentz' treatise on the Order of
Things is quite simply wrong. Not only does he believe that the gods created
the Universe, he also implies that they have created everything of what we
call Reality. How naive. How very naive. Unfortunately these are quite
common views on the Universe. Unfortunately.

Gods are no more than entities of the Warp. Strong Spirits if you wish. As I
said in my last letter, I have come to see the Order of Things through the
eyes of a dying creature slowly coming to terms with the Universe. I have
seen that Man is nothing less than a mortal shell for an immortal Spirit. A
house for a stranger in a strange world.

It is the greatest of these Spirits that Man calls Gods. These Spirits are
incapable of manifesting themselves in the Realm of Man. They are, as we all
are aware of, able to perform miracles in this world, but that is only
through use of Magick (refer to my last letter for a definition of Magick).
They are, however, quite incapable of creating living creatures in this, or
any other world for that matter. They are, and will continue to be, for all
eternity, creatures of the Warp.

My dear Lord Archivator, I will be unreachable for a time. I have gotten my
hands on a most interesting book, and will therefore leave my dwellings in
search of the fabled city of Morgeheim. May peace be with you. Your most
affectionate friend and tutor.

---End included message---

Thomas Oesterlie
toaster@pvv.unit.no
Maintainer of the Warhammer Archives
-------------------------------------------------------------
PVV - The Software Workshop, University of Trondheim, Norway

-----------------------------

From: matthew@te.rl.ac.uk (Matthew Bassett (Ext. 6571))
Subject: [WFRP:1540] Re: The Creation, Gods and Spirits

With regard to Baron Valtor von Schunbergers most enlightened
refutation of Heironymous Lentz' theories, the following incident
occured to me earlier today:

I was attending to some business with some artificers, when I was
accosted by a street urchin who handed me a rather badly scribbledn
note, before running off.  The note asked me to meet `a friend' in the
Pilgrims Keller off Konigstrasse. Upon visiting the place I went to
the far corner from the bar, as directed by the note, and found none
other than Heironymous Lentz skulking over a stein of beer.

As soon as I appeared a look of great relief appeared over his wan
features. As he rose to greet me I noticed that he carefully kept his
right arm covered by his cloak. H. told me his woes:

  "Much as I appreciate you circulating my letter for comment, it
seems that Baron Valtor von Schunberger has taken offense at the way I
have presented my theories, and has arranged for me to suffer an
inconvenience of sorts. I wonder if you might intercede, on my behalf,
and point out to him that I have the utmost respect for him, which may
not have been apparent from my letter, and convey to him apologies for
any perceived insult."

H. appeared most perturbed when I informed him that Baron von
Schunberger was departing for unknown regions, and might not be
available for some time. At this point I informed him of the Barons
refutation, and handed him a copy. He became very animated as he read
it, and over a DunkelWeiss he shared his thoughts on the matter with
me. I have tried to record our dialogue as accurately as I remember
below:

  "No, no, no. Baron von Schunberger has mistaken my arguement. I
maintain that the Gods and the other creatures of the Warp were
created by the Universe. Creation, as we know, is just a small portion
of the Universe, which was impressed on the primal fluid by the most
powerful of these spirits. Perhaps I should have defined my terms more
clearly so the old windbag would know what I was on about. Er...
don't tell anyone about me calling him a windbag, right?"

  I considered this, and asked "Could not Creation, as we know it,
have arisen from your hypothesized primal fluid in the same fashion as
you maintain the Spirits of the Warp did? In fact, could we not
consider Space or Creation, to be the physical matter of the mindless
entities of the Warp that you put forward in your letter?"

  H. glanced at me for a moment, his eyes glinting in the dancing
candle light. "No you fool, you have made an entirely different
mistake. Creation must be an artifact of the Gods, upon which they can
effect change, otherwise the struggle between them for control is
meaningless and thus inconceivable! They fight over whether or not
Creation should be returned to the Primal Flux!

  "Although," he added "this idea that the Gods cannot create living
creatures is interesting. I myself have considered that our spirits,
or souls if you like, are immortal entities of the warp, just of much
lesser magnitude than those that we call Gods. Perhaps the Gods do not
create the immortal soul, but merely fashion the physical shell into
which the spirit is drawn? Hm. animals, and lesser people would of
course have spirits of even smaller magnitude, and there must be some
constraint on the magnitude of spirits that can manifest in Creation,
as von Schunberger notes..."

At this juncture I pointed out to him the flaw in his arguement, that
Gods could fight over returning Creation to the Primal Flux,
regardless of whether they had created it, or that they might well be
struggling over some entirely different matter of contention. He flew
into a rage, and spitting and screaming, and gesticulating as foam
dribbled from his incoherent lips, he unintentionally uncovered his
right arm. Now I consider myself a man of strong stomach, but what I
saw under that cloak revolted me beyond measure and I fled that place
blindly. Only just now have I recovered myself enough to put finger to
keyboard and scribe these details so that others may see them.

I hope that for the sake of regulars in the Pilgrims Keller, that Von
Schunberger can be contacted (should it indeed have been him who
caused such a revolting infestation), and be persuaded to remove his
curse from Heironymous Lentz.

Regards,

_______________________________________________________________________

Matthew Bassett                               mail: matthew@te.rl.ac.uk
Rutherford Appleton Laboratory                 tel: +44 (0) 1235 446571

"Where's the nearest information super layby?"


-----------------------------

From: uiole@usa.pipeline.com (Steven C. Ihde)
Subject: [WFRP:1532] Chaos

Before Herr Doktor Johannes Braumbach sticks his foot in his mouth
concerning the theory of Chaos (warhammer version), could someone please
define it for him? (Total lack of order or what?)

------------------------------

From: <clay@incite.com>
Subject: [WFRP:1533] Chaos:  A Question and a Fragmentary Answer

Dr. Braumbach wishes to know what Chaos is.

First, may I say that Chaos IS NOT the "total lack of Order."  As Herr
Sonnyapfels has postulated before, Order is a child of Chaos, a part of
Chaos.  Order is that part of Chaos which we perceive.

I recently came across a fragment of a manuscript from Herr Augustus Blut. 
It is not finished, but is interesting nonetheless.  I understand that Herr
Blut was taken from his room while writing this manuscript and quartered. 
How the manuscript actually survived, I do not know.  I found it under
Octavius' Head, Shelf 8, in the Library at Nuln.

Manuscript 451
Attributed to Herr Augustus Blut of Talabheim, died 1603

Is Chaos Evil?  Are the True Gods utterly inimicable to Mortalkind?  Is the
Mortal who traffics with the True Gods corrupt?

Many of our peers, especially those devoted to the Mortal Gods, would argue
that yes is the only answer a sane person could give.  In the same breath,
this initiate would also proclaim that the True Gods are responsible for all
Creation, and doing so must explain how such "evil" beings could create
something as "good" as Creation and Life itself.

Obviously then, the intelligent man must re-examine the long-held beliefs
that Chaos is Evil, that the True Gods seek only to destroy Mortalkind, and
that any Mortal who traffics with the True Gods is thereby made evil and
corrupt.

The Universe is Chaos.  In Chaos the Universe began, and so it will return. 
But the Life of the Universe is what we perceive as Order.  Chaos is mutable
and infinite, the source of the Immortals.  Order is immutable and finite,
the source of the Mortals.

Life is the boundry between Chaos and Order.  It is the mutable finite and
the immutable infinite.  Life requires Chaos and Order, in more or less
equal amounts, to function.

The simple-minded are inclined to enforce moral values on the universal
poles of Life.  Why does this simple-minded Mortal name Chaos Evil? Chaos
represents uncertainty.  The simple-minded Mortal is adverse to uncertainty.
 He cannot cope with the unknowable and unpredictable.  Since he cannot
foresee the outcome of Chaos, he assumes the worst and calls it Evil.  But
safe, predictable Order, is the refuge of the simple-mind: no complications,
no decisions, all structure and no movement.  It is no wonder that the
simple-mind calls Order Good.

But the curious mind begins to see the reverse.  Order abhores
contradiction, and original thought, the product of the curious mind,
creates contradictions!  Order would, given free reign, demolish "Good"
things like the Universities, games, sports, dances, story-telling, and
exploration!  Order, given free reign, would create a static world...

The manuscript ends there.

------------------------------

From: "Nexus Editrice srl (Roberto Di Meglio)" <nexus.rdm@caen.it>
Subject: [WFRP:1542] De Chaotica Rerum Natura

The well-known grimoire De Chaotica Rerum Natura (On the Chaotic Nature of
Things), written by the notorious Tilean Demonologist Rupertus Melioriis,
was believed to be completely lost after all the copies were burned together
with their author in Luccini. However, it seems that fragments were
preserved by some apprentice, as recently the following digression on the
nature of Chaos and Chaos Gods was found which clearly bring the mark of
Melioriis' work (well known for the 'Tilean-ness' of his prose).

[Excerpt from De Chaotica Rerum Natura follows:]

.. After what has been said, I must come to the conclusion that Chaos Gods
are not things of pure Chaos, strange as this may seem to the Unlearned. To
be of pure Chaos would mean to lose track of one's own identity completely,
as Identity is a function of Order and not of Disorder. But it cannot be
denied that the Gods of Chaos do have an Identity, so much so that (unless
all we know of them is wildly wrong) we associate them to Lust, Hate,
Treachery and Corruption.

If this is true (and all I discovered in the centuries I spent to ponder on
these matters clearly point in this direction), then we must conclude that
what the Chaos Gods actually struggle to do is to preserve their own
Identity, to avoid returning to the amorphousness of pure Chaos. How they do
this? They achieve this feat by spreading Chaos, their own kind of Chaos, in
the Material World.
Only the ignorant would believe this a paradox, for it is in the nature of
all things that, in order to preserve the Order they have within, they have
to spread Disorder without. What Man and all creatures do is to consume,
burn, destroy what is around in order to feed themselves, because feeding is
necessary to preserve one's identity and health (id est, one's internal order).

[A note added to the side of the manuscript by an anonymous reader adds: "As
the learned has come to say, to keep entropy low within, entropy in the
surrounding must become higher."]

While the Chaos Gods partake of the nature of the Warp and not of the
Material World, much of the same reasoning applies. By spreading their own
peculiar aspect of Chaos around, they in return reinforce their own
Identity, and they costantly need to do so, else the amorphousness of Chaos
would prevail and they would lose their own consciousness in the Sea of
Souls, like a drop of water returning to the ocean.
There is an important meaning in this, and if my research is correct, it
could change our perception of Chaos forever. Chaos Gods do not want the
triumph of Chaos more than we do. They need a Material World to spread Chaos
in, else they could not 'feed' their own Identity.
If the Material World should become totally engulfed by the Warp, there
would be no place to spread the Lust, Hate, Treachery and Corruption they
need to survive.

However, it is possible that the Chaos Gods are so horribly hungry of their
nourishment that they will forgive all caution, devouring everything before
realizing they are dooming themselves by doing so.
It is said that the stupid Orcs act in this way, by slaughtering all beasts,
burning all crops they cannot eat, without realizing that in the end there
would be no beast and no crop to feed them.
If hungrily the Chaos God will devour our world, then they too shall lose
and return to Oblivion, and only Pure Chaos will remain forever and ever...
Unless, of course, other worlds exists where Chaos can be spread again...


Roberto Di Meglio
Nexus Editrice Srl - Via Rosmini 16 55049 Viareggio (LU) Italy
Tel +39.584.49748 Fax +39.584.944765 e-mail: nexus.rdm@caen.it
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
KAOS, The Foremost Italian RPG Magazine is on line!
We welcome you to our web page: http://www.sincretech.it/KAOS/KaosOnline.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
'Tis with our judgement as with our watches: none goes just alike, yet each
believes his own.
[Alexander Pope]

------------------------

From: mb0796@rtccnh1.serigate.philips.nl

My learned friends,

your various communications fell into my hand a few days ago, from a friend of
mine in the brotherhood of balance and blade (known commonly as the inquisition).
I must say that I found your Arguments most entertaining, but feel that such 
pasttimes are better discarded in adolescence, with other forms of unproductive
self gratification. None the less, I found myself unable to put the subject out
of my mind, and to this end I am writing to you, in the hope of dispelling some
of your more fantastic and dangerous misperceptions.

So then, to recapitulate the question is; can neutral demons exist?
The first point which apears to require clarification is the confusion between
the scientific and religious definitions of Chaos. In science, chaos is a clearly
defined and universal phenomena, whose effects can be identified in countless
everyday phenomena, and whose behaviour can be explained entirely by the application 
of mathematics and physics, and more specifically the fields of statistics and entropy.
This is chaos with a small c.

The effects which are more commonly referred to as chaotic are entirely different.
they are the effects arising from the appearance in our universe of matter from 
another (generically referred to as warpstone). When warpstone is inducted into
our universe, for example through one of the polar warp gates, it brings with it 
the physical laws which apply in the universe from which it originates. Naturally
these laws are in general entirely different to those of our own, resulting in
behaviour which is utterly inexplicable by our own physical laws. Practically
speaking this is manifested in physical mutation, paticularly in living things, in
such a way as could never occur in nature.

Fortunately, these effects are limited in range by the vast weight of our own
physical laws. A far more insiduous problem is that of the spiritual leakage into 
our own universe. Many philosophers have split man into parts, including the physical
and spiritual. If we accept this, and postulate that it is true for all sentient 
creatures, we can envisage a situation where spiritual matter, that is to say 
thoughts and feelings is able to leak through the warp gates along side, or possibly
incorporated with the solid matter. The possible consequences of this are discussed
later.

The next important point to consider is the meaning of Law and Chaos, as they are used
in religion. It seems to me that law and chaos are one and the same, from the point
of view of thier origins, ie from another universe via the warp. The only difference
is the manner in which they manifest themselves in our universe. The effect of
Chaos is as we have already discussed, random and generally harmful mutation. Law
has the inverse effect, in that it inhibits change. Neither of these effects are 
desireable from the point of view of living things. It is possible that the two extreems
represent matter originating from just two different universes, where the rates of 
entropy are respectively faster and slower. An interesting point is the mentality
which is associated with these two kinds of contamination, where individuals become 
anarchistic or dogmatic in sympathy with the kind of contamination they have suffered.
Here we come back to my hypothesis of the influx of spiritual matter. Could it be that
peoples minds are altered in parrallel with there bodies, so that the chaos warrior
for example becomes violent and unpredictable as his body mutates at random. Another
interesting possibility of this hypothesis is its compatability with the most modern 
theories of magic. It is concievable that this spiritual matter behaves in a way much
like the winds of magic

This last consideration brings us to the topic of Gods. They are intricately entwined
with the war between law and chaos as it is presented by conventional religion. it
seems to me that the most likely explanation is tht hte gods to are originally 
from these other universes wwhich we have discussed, but are sufficiently superior
to us that they are able to mave freely through the warp> being from another universe, 
Gods are not bound by the physical laws of our own universe, which means that they
have vast reserves of magical power, permitting them to perform incredible feats
in our universe. In there own however, they have under normal circomstances no such 
powers. It is for this reason that the gods concern themselves with human affairs-
In the veneration of worshippers, or the misery of sacrifice, spiritual energy is 
released to the god to whom it is offered. this spiritual energy is of course from
our own universe, which has the equivalent effect elsewhere as warpstone has in our
own. From this, a god attains power in its own universe. The approaches used by
the gods to acquire this energy are many and varied, and from the point of view
of man kind, can be good or bad. This leads me on to another point mentioned in
the discourse of my erudite coleagues, as to the position of Neutral Gods. Before
we discuss thier existence in general, I should like to suggest that no god 
worshipped by an intellegent race can be from that races point of view neutral. If
the God is not in the broad sence of the word `good`, why would they worship him. 
Note of course that here we do not mean good as in loyal, charitable etc, but simply
a source of power, pride and superiority over others. On this particular point I would
like to stress here my opinion that the lady Verena should be classed as Good, as
her influence is undeniably good for the human race. The error is in the confusion
of neutrality with impartiality, but I digress.

Before we go on, it is neccessary to state the position of demons. In line with the
the theory  which is here presented, their place is obvious. They are simply the
less powerful fellows of the gods. If they are able to gather sufficient worship
in there own right, they may aspire to become gods themselves. Until then they 
content themselves with serving a particular god, in return for which service they
may be rewarded with some of his power.

Finally, to answer the original question, do neutral gods, and there servants neutral
demons exist. If we accept the deffinition of neutrality implied by the discussion
above, ie that a neutral god is one who has no worshippers among the race making
the judgement, then there are indeed many such gods. In fact the question is not
what is a gods alignment, but who are its worshippers. However, to answer the question
in the trivial sence in which it was asked, ie from the point of view of the average
human, the answer is still yes, as there are doubtless countless gods who show no 
interest in our universe, and are therefore by definition nuetral. There servants the
demons must therefore be the same.

Before I finish, there is one point which should be cleared up. While in the great scheme
of thing a gods alignment cannot be usefully classed, we are human beings, and we
must do what is best for our own race. This being the case, it is only right that 
the worship of powers whose activities are harmfull to mankind (traditionally
classed as evil and chaotic) should be proscribed. This being so, I would urge
you to give up your unclean ways, andd adopt the worship of powers less harmfull
to yourselves and mankind.

Well, I hope that my thoughts go some way to giveing you a more profound view of 
things, and may the lady Verena show you ther error of your ways. I hope that you
return to the fold before I meet you in a proffesional capacity, 

Siegried Schwartzadler, Solicitor of Verena.

