From: Chris Clements <chris@atmnet.net>
Subject: [WFRP:1017] Praag

Well, with all this talk of Arianka, I thought I would throw in some background
material from my campaign "Key to Arianka" that I ran a few years back.  I
found Praag to be a great backdrop to the first adventure ("The Swooping Hawk"),
and it definately added an odd twist to the story.

The first adventure had part of it take place in Praag, so, to anyone who's
interested, here's a short snippet (I've deleted parts of the writing to
make it more functional in a stand-alone context):

---Praag---
<snip>

-History-
Praag, the city of the defeated, is enwrapped with huge moss covered
stone walls resting on the flat wheatland of Kislev.  To the north, just
a few hundred feet away from the city proper snakes the cold River Lynsk,
which is frozen over for most of the winter months.  The city itself is
pivotal in staving off the migration of chaos and many battles
have been fought at its walls.  The last such major battle (over 200
years ago) something horrible happened - the city was overswept in the
tide of chaos after a long and bitter siege.  As it was overrun, chaos
left an everlasting mark that would plague Praag for as long as it
exists.  Those that perished within imprinted their horror and pain
into the very buildings they died defending.  The stuff of chaos trapped
part of their loathing and suffering, damning the city to be forever
unclean.  The citizens who escaped returned when their town was liberated
by Magnus the Pious and his Imperial army.  What they found was a twisted
little hells where there houses once stood.  King Zoltan I ordered all
the buildings to be purged by the cleansing flame and to be rebuilt
afterwards.

A few years later strange things started to happen.  At first they
were ignored by everyone, in the vain hope that these were just
isolated incidents.  They were not.  These 'incidents' continued
to grow in frequency and danger as each winter came and went.  The
citizens were facing another siege, one that could not be defeated
by steel.  They turned to their King, pleading for him to stop the
taint from growing within their city.  He heard his peoples appeal
and attempted all that was in his power to stop the cancerous foulness
to no avail.  For each building he had burned two more became
'infected'.  Exorcisms only drove of the evil away for a little
while and many clerics were perishing in these attempts.  All he
did failed, and he began to think that Praag would indeed fall to chaos.
He began to give up hope.

Hope was given to him in those shadowed times.  An initiate of Ulric by
the name of Grinvar came to King Zoltan with a solution.  Grinvar described
a ceremony, using holy relics of all the churches, to ward off the
growing chaos.  This ceremony would be led with the flames of Ulric himself,
burning away and purging Praag of the defiled areas.  When asked how he
came upon this solution, Grinvar explained Ulric had sent it to him
in a dream.  Many court members scoffed at this, and an advisor to the
king warned that Grinvar was probably mad.  Seeing this doubt, Grinvar
raised his hand aloft and cried the name of Ulric.  Blue flame surrounded
his mortal frame and danced around the court, burning everything and
everyone, yet leaving no marks that could be divined afterwards.  All felt
as if a great malignancy had been purged from their hearts, and the
walls no longer moaned or reached for the living.  The King bowed to
Griznar and proclaimed that the city was be saved.  King Zoltan also
promised that those of Griznar's line would always be honored and have
a place in the court.

So began the Ceremony Depurgas and the position of Attendant of the
Flame.  Since then, the ceremony has been done over eighteen times, on the
anniversary of the Fall of Praag and Griznar's solution (which happened
exactly a decade later).  This also coincides with Ulric's chief holy
day, the Winter Solstice.  The Winter Solstice is when the defenders of
Praag must face the enemy on the longest night of the year.  It is a test
of faith in which the citizens must temporarily abandon their city while
it is rumored the gods fight for Praag's soul.  Only those who ally
themselves with the gods may attempt to help cleanse the city and
challenge the horrors that arise when chaos is provoked by the enactment
of this ceremony.
<snip>

There is much more than this, but I am unsure of how useful it would
be out of context.  I can tell you that it was sure was fun having my pcs
arrive into a mostly empty Praag ("...the whole city to ourselves!"), except
for the groups of clerics and templars.  And of course, the tainted things
the cleansing ceremony awoke...



-Personality of the City-
Praag, in day to day life, is not so much different from any other major city.
Peasants do the physical labor.  Nobles gripe about the peasants and drink
the day away.  Merchants haggle over the price of their latest ware with 
whoever is interested.  Life, as it is in Praag, goes on at a regular pace.
At first glance, it is hard to imagine that this place has the horrible 
reputation that it does. It is altogether normal.

It is only after a day or two are spent within the city does the poor
traveler realize this normality is forced.  The people treat each other 
civilized enough, but behind their smiles and greetings hide anxiety and fear.
General conversations exclude anything that deals with mutants or chaos.  Woe 
betide the wanderer who mentions a vile god's name (even if only in a curse) 
within Praag's borders, for the citizens believe that god turns its attentions
to their poor beleaguered city.  It is not unknown for a visiting merchant who
speaks dark words to either be run out of Praag, have stones cast at him, or (
in the extreme cases) be lynched by a mob.

Witch-hunters operate here, more than anywhere else in the Old World, with
terrifying freedom.  A mutant, to the population of Praag, is a painful 
reminder of the polluted energies that build within their homes.  The 
government feeds into this paranoia by sanctioning hunters to publicly execute
any found mutants, cultists, and foul chaos spawn.  The cults that manage to 
survive this intense scrutiny manage to do so by only through numerous safety 
precautions and by being suspicious of everyone.  Official witch-hunters, 
servants to the High Inquisitor, have even a broader range of powers, making 
them a power to be feared in Praag.

+Attitudes+
Praag's citizens are survivors.  They endure their lot in life with an outlook
that borders on fatalism.  The here today, gone tomorrow attitude is prevalent
through most of the populace.  This defeatist attitude is ingrained into their
core personalities as they grow up and see the first hand effects of chaos
close up.

Fortunately for the rest of the Old World, Praag is to proud to surrender.
It is pride that keeps the people moving.  To think one is defeated is 
acceptable... to acknowledge such defeat is unthinkable.  This strange 
dichotomy is very difficult for visitors to understand but to the people who 
live there it makes perfect sense.  Praag has been called the 'Wounded' or 
'Dying Wolf' who rips the throat out of its enemy with its last ounce of 
strength.  The people realize the chaos within their city will eventually be 
their downfall, but they'll do their damn best job of bloodying its nose 
before their gone.

Why don't the citizens leave to greener pastures?  Life in Kislev is rough, and
those who find a niche generally try and stick with it.  What would happen if a
laborer moved and couldn't find work elsewhere?  He would starve.  And would
the merchant had to give up all his old contacts and start from scratch?  The
merchant would have to be desperate indeed.  "It may be hell, but it's my hell"
is a common saying amongst those who live in Praag.  Life is not all that
bad there, as long as a person watches out what they say and pay lip-service 
to the more kinder gods. 

Add to this fact that most of the population are unable to leave if they 
wished. Fearing the peasants would decide to go elsewhere, King Zoltan I had 
made into effect a law that bound the people to their liege-lords (nobles or 
powerful merchants whom the lower class are employed by).  This bill was 
called the "Dark Prison" by its detractors.  To traverse outside city walls, 
an individual must prove that they have the right to leave by showing the 
proper documents.  These documents could only be obtained from the individual's
liege-lord through a large fee, and then the transfer to the individual must 
be approved by a ruling magistrate.

+Religion+
The people of Kislev are not known for their piety, and most citizens of
Praag fall into this category.  The public view the clergy and gods as 
ineffectual, unable to stave off the raids from the Chaos Wastes. The 
exception to this is Ulric, who the populace view as more capable due to his 
help in protecting their city, but not by much.

The three main gods of Kislev (and therefore Pragg) are Ulric (called
Olric), Taal, and Rhya. Other gods, while represented, are often ignored.
A good example of this is the Temple of Verena, established after the city was
rebuilt (see history). It is normally empty, with the occasional scholar 
stopping in to use the library. Fortunately for the temples, the less popular 
cults are funded by the government, mostly due to tradition and for fear of 
what the gods reaction would be if their temples disappeared.

+Laws+
The laws of Praag are practical and harsh.  If an individual commits a crime
and is caught that person faces swift punishment.  A magistrate reviews the
evidence in the case and considers a brief oral statement given by the 
defendent to the arresting officer (who has sole control over the reliability 
of the declaration).  The watchman can usually be expected to recite the 
defendant's speech word for word, and deliberate altering of the arrested's 
message only happens infrequently.

Trials are for the upper-classess exclusively (the Boyars, priests,
upper-bureaucrats, and the aristocracy) who have more rights in defending 
themselves.  The one exception for trials in this case is the large public 
affairs held by the Servants of the Flame who judge those accused of bearing 
the taint of chaos.  All who appear in that court are always found guilty, and
it is run only to serve as a warning to those who would harbor impure 
loyalties in their hearts.

+Resources of Praag+
The land surrounding Praag has many sources of wealth.  Lumber, fur, and
coal all rest within the city's reach. The staple crop produced from the 
neighboring farmlands is sugar beets; bright red beets slightly smaller than 
potatoes which have a sweet inner core after their bland exterior is removed.
Other crops include wheat, oats, barley, cotton, tobbacco, and potatoes. 
Common livestock include the usual: sheeps, cattle, and hogs.  Metals that are
mined from the Foothills to the east are copper, iron ore, and to a lesser 
extent, nickle.  Another resource that was recently discovered is oil.

+Important Individuals+
King Zoltan II - the King is a proud (some might say arrogant) man, who 
		 despises the city he rules.  He is often outside the city, 
		 vacationing
                 in the numerous private estates he owns around Kislev.  Zoltan
                 cares little for the day to day politics of Praag, and only
                 involves himself on personal level when he wants more money 
		 for his coffers (i.e.he wants to raise taxes).

Princess Catherine IV - in all but title, Princess Catherine rules Praag. She 
			has
                        her father's blessing in this, and she sees to all the
                        minor details that "bore" him so.  A highly intelligent
                        young woman, the Princess discharges her
 			responsibilities to the city in an efficient manner.

Vladmir Cossak, Attendant of the Flames:
in charge of the Ceremony Depurgas, Vladmir follows the examples set by
past attendants and tries to remain in the background.  He is the highest
ranking cleric of Olric in Kislev, on par with Ar-Ulric in Middenheim.
Vladmir is fanatically devoted to his position and has a deep hatred of
chaos in all its forms.

Basil Vardaski, Chief Inquisitor:
the Chief Inquisitor is the most feared man in
Praag, without a doubt.  Churlish and cynical,
Basil Vardaski controls Praag's official witch-
hunters (read: secret police) with a dispassionate
ruthlessness that would do a Champion of Khorne
proud.  Enemies of the High Inquisitor have a
tendancy to disappear...

+Important Groups+
Black Daggers - a cult who worships a unnamed god of chaos (even they do know
                the god's identity).  This god is mentioned by the cultists
                as 'The One Who is Unamed' or 'Our Silent Watcher'.  The
                cult has so far evaded the vicious witch-hunters attentions
                by having their meeting places outside the city.  Their
 		goals are
                mostly unknown, and seem to vary from each reported activity.
                Cult members are quite fond of using poisoned weapons,
                daggers being their favorite envenomed weapon of choice.

Boyars - just below being nobility themselves, Boyars are wealthy landowners.
         They are not a single cohesive group in a normal sense, but wield
         considerable political influence when they are threatened as a whole.

Servants of the Flame - this group is mainly composed of clerics of Olric who,
                        along with their duties leading the Ceremony Depurgas,
                        form an official court which judges "crimes against
                        nature" (i.e. worshipping a chaos god, being a mutant,
                        etc.).  Very cooperative with the sanctioned witch-
                        hunters.
Chris Clements
chris@atmnet.com

"Death?  Yeah, I've met him.  I wasn't impressed."