From: MadAlfred@aol.com
Subject: [WFRP:1520] 

Take a look at the Remean Empire.  Comments (or
embellishments) are welcomed.

Alfred Nunez
Hauptdirektor-Schwarzmantel
MadAlfred@AOL.com


REMEAN EMPIRE

   Sometime around -500 I.C., Remas was founded on the headlands
overlooking the Laguna della Festa.  For nearly 200 years,
Remas vied with its neighbors over land, wealth, and advantage. 
At one point, it was subjugated by a ancient power to the
immediate north.  From its capital at Veio, the early kingdom of
Etruscia ruled over Remas for 100 years and strongly influenced
its development.  In -280 I.C., the Remeans threw out the
Etruscians and established their Republic.
   After 70 years of various wars with its neighbors, the Remean
Republic emerged as one of the more powerful entities in Tilea. 
Remas then founded the Tilean League with the goal of ousting the
invading Hellene Empire from the southeast.  By -190 I.C., the
Tilean League succeeded in their goal, leaving Remas more
powerful than before.  At first, the Tilean kingdoms were slow to
realize the change in the balance of power.  In -50 I.C., war
broke out with the end result that Remas subjugated the rest of
Tilea.
   Once power was consolidated, Remas began its expansion.  In
-10 I.C., Remean Legions crossed the River Capari and crushed
what remained of the Hellene Empire (who lost power and prestige
after their defeat in Tilea).  The great Remean general, Crassius
Gaius Caesare, led his Legions in pursuit of the fleeing Hellene
generals to the land of Kemet.  Meeting fierce opposition, the
Remean Legions gave no quarter and soon conquered Kemet and its
neighboring kingdoms.  The last pharoah of Kemet, Amun-Ramsus
XIII, was slain as he tried to flee in peasant's rags.
   After a few more years of consolidating power, the (newly
proclaimed) Emperor Crassius Gaius Caesare led the Remean Legions
into the Badlands in 15 I.C.  They crushed the largest Goblinoid
army ever near the ruins of Khivos on the Black Gulf and drove
them back into the Dark Lands.
   In 25 I.C., Emperor Octavius turned his attention towards the
north and west.  First, his Legions established a presence in
southern Bretonnia.  Then, he began a conquest of Estalia which
was completed in 50 I.C.  The native Keltoi peoples of both
regions were forced to submit to Remean rule.  Those who could
not stomach such a fate fled northward.  Thus ended the first
expansion period of the Remean Empire.
   In the matters of religion, Myrmidia was the chief deity in
Remas.  Behind her were Verena, Morr, Manann, Mercipio (the
Tilean name for Handrich), Shallya, and Solkan (who was revered
by several Emperors).  In the countryside, Rhya was worshipped by
the farmers and herders.
   Except for ocasional outbreaks of violence by rebels, the
Remean Empire remained at peace for 400 years.  In 453 I.C.,
Remean Legions recaptured Sartosa and routed the occupying force
of Dark Elves and Undead.  Within fifty years, Remean expansion
began anew as Emperor Constantius turned his attention northward
to the troublesome Keltoi people of Bretonnia.  By 510 I.C., the
whole of Bretonnia came under Remean rule.  In commemoration, the
city of Constantium is established as the capital of Remean
Kemet.
   Nearly 250 years of relative peace passed before troubles for
the Remean Empire began again.  In 756 I.C., Remean Legions were
leaving Bretonnia to deal with uprisings in the south.  After
crushing a insurrection in Kemet, the Remean Legions faced a
civil war in Tilea.  This was to last 30 years with a weakened
Remas emerging victorious.  In 820 I.C., Remas faced one more
revolt in Bilbali ans easily crushed the opposition.
   After 160 years of relative peace, the Remean Legions
reappeared in Bretonnia to recover lost territories (982 I.C.). 
This time they faced Gilles le Breton of Gisoreux and clashed
with him frequently.  They were forced to withdraw when
Goblinoids swarmed into the Badlands and destroyed Remean
settlements along the Black Gulf.  The Greenskins then invaded
the Border Princes where they faced the returning Remean Legions. 
Even though they suffered great losses, the Remean Legions
defeated the Goblinoids and threw them back across Blood River.
   In 1001 I.C., another Tilean civil war breaks out causing the
eventual collapse of the Remean Empire in the Old World (1015
I.C.).  Only the Remean Empire in Araby remained with its capital
of Constantium.  This Constantian Empire (as it would henceforth
be called) held its provinces for 137 years.  Arabian pressure
over the next 118 years finally caused the fall of the last
remnant of the great Remean Empire.
