From: MadAlfred@aol.com
Subject: [WFRP:1519] Spartius

   Here's the info on Spartius.  I hope it is what you were looking for.
 BTW, the places I refer to are from my map on the Border Princes.  A copy
could be found on http://www.ifi.uio.no/~mortenk/pics.html (which Morten Krog
so graciously provided for me).  The copy is not real good as I originally
used colors as contrast (like the coastline).  So, I'm redrawing it.  This
time, I will incorporate Eric Oppen's Dolgany, Transmontania, and
Waldavia-Mollachia (although I think the realms are too big, but that can be
explained y conquests or some other political arrangement with the princedoms
and dukedoms IMHO), as well as Owen Cooper's Switzer.

Alfred Nunez
Hauptdirektor-Schwarzmantel
MadAlfred@AOL.com


SPARTIUS

   Nearly one thousand years after the mysterious disappearance
of the Midean culture (circa -2000 I.C.), civilization began to
reassert itself in the land that people now call "the Border
Princes."  The great city-states of the Hellene people (who
settled in the southwestern region sometime after the fall of the
Mideans) became prominent during this time.  According to legend,
the great city of Myrmidens was founded by the goddess Myrmidia.
   Spartius was another of the great Hellene city-states. 
Located at the northeastern terminus of the Miros Hills and near
the River Skiros, Spartius was founded by the Solkanite High
Priest Arkalaides the Elder.  The largest building in the city
was the great Temple of Solkan, said to be one of the wonders of
the ancient world.  The second largest stucture was The Citadel
which housed the military leaders.
   Life in Spartius was dictated by the "Book of Laws," written
by Arkalaides the Elder (who claimed inspiration from Solkan). 
The social classes in Spartius were rigidly stratified between
the military and clergy (both of whom ruled the city), 
commoners, and slaves.  Movement upwards from one class to
another was unheard of, while violations of the law could result
in downward movement (for those few who weren't executed).  This
clearly defined division of classes was a major contributor to
making Spartius in its day the most powerful (though inflexible)
military force in Hellene.
   With the continuing incursions of Goblinoids from the
Badlands, Myrmidens and Spartius founded the Achaen League (which
also included the Hellene city-states of Kasos, Argalis, Volrisa,
Thessos, and Achaes).  The League existed for well over 700
years, even though civil war broke out at least twelve times. 
Most of the time, Myrmidens and Spartius formed separate camps as
the two vied for influence over the others.  The camps to which
the other Hellene cities joined differed with each outbreak of
war.  Victories in these wars proclaimed the dominant power until
the next outbreak of war.  Even in these times, the Achaen League
remained a viable force to counter the ever-present greenskin
threat.
   All this changed in -239 I.C. when the young Alesandr of
Achaes succeeded his father Philus as leader of the League.  Both
Myrmidens and Spartius rose in anger as neither thought Alesandr
worthy of the title (and both wanted to recover their ages old
influence over the League).  Alesandr proved his mettle as he
first subdued Myrimidens (whose leaders quickly sued for peace)
before crushing Spartius (the ruling miliatry and clerical castes
refused to surrender).  As a result of their continuing
resistance, Alesandr razed the city of Spartius and exiled its
surviving citizens to lands beyond Hellene.
   Over the years, the dust of time covered Spartius.  Locals
claim that the area is haunted by restless spirits cursing
Alesandr of Achaes.  Some say that these spirits may even be
protecting hidden treasures.  No one knows for certain as few of
the seasoned adventurers who have journeyed there ever return
(and those few were never the same)...
