From: Psychedelic Goblin <PS4CC@merkland.rgu.ac.uk>
To: wfrp@gojira.monsta.com
Subject: WFRP: Wood Elven Culture

The following material is written for use by all. A following 
section details Wood elves as they exist in my campaign and can be 
discarded as desired. - Psychedelic Goblin

WOOD ELVEN CULTURE
==================

THE COMMUNITY
Wood elven settlements are communities in the truest sense of the 
word. Every member is expected to contribute to the overall welfare 
of the community and to pull their own weight. the weight pulling 
ethic is all too figurative, because the arts and entertainments are 
seen as just as important as any craft. Everyone must provide 
something for the community, because there is no inter-settlement 
trading or use of coin. In cases where an elf is unable to help for 
valid reasons (such as being badly wounded) he can rely upon the 
community to support him. No one really wants for anything in the 
elven community providing they contribute in some fashion.
Even elven meals tend to be communal feasts.

RELATIONSHIPS & MARRIAGE
Elves are very liberally minded regarding relationships, and often 
have multiple lovers and relationships of varying lengths and 
intensity at any one time. Still, very occassionally a couple will 
become lovestruck and form a marriage bond for as long as they both 
reciprocate the love. While not bisexual in the true sense of the 
word, many elves can appreciate beauty in members of their own sex (a 
fact that dwarves find disgusting).

PREGNANCY & BIRTH
Unfortunately, elven pregnancies are increasingly rare, due perhaps 
to their inbreeding. This has led to many separate elven settlements 
arranging joint festivals for 1 week each spring, and some exchange 
of community members. Many of the elven pregnancies are conceived 
during this period, and bonds between the communities have increased 
as a result.
Elven females are pregnant for 1 year but the pregnancy does not 
impede them for the first 6 months. Birth is viewed as a great cause 
for rejoice in the community as a new member is welcomed. Elven mates 
share the pain of childbirth through a ritual known by the head spell 
caster of the community.

CHILD REARING
Elven children are reared by the community as a whole and taught and 
nurtured from the beggining. Of course they have a special bond with 
their birth parent but they become close friends with most of the 
other settlement adults as well. Elven children are expected to 
assist in the rearing of children younger than them, and aid adults 
with minor tasks and chores. Elves take great delight in the young 
and let them explore their environment and play providing the 
activity is not too dangerous.

DEATH
Death is seen as a natural part in the cycle of life for an elf. It 
is not marked by mourning because the elves know they are blessed 
with long lifespans. Festivals are held to honour the deceased and 
tales are told in his memory. The elves bury their dead at the base 
of the deceaseds favoured tree.
However, this is slowly changing and sorrow is creeping into their 
rites of passing, for the elven race is dying, and each death brings 
them closer to the end...

RULERSHIP
As an enlightened culture the wood elves no longer hold to the right 
of blood rulership. Elven communities approach their decisions in a 
democratic manner, with each adult elf holding 1 vote. In addition 
the settlements have councils to govern in times of emergency or to 
cast the decisive vote in a tied poll. Council members are voted into 
their position by their fellow elves on merit of wisdom, intellect, 
and experience. those that act in a foolish or arbitrary manner are 
voted out and forced to resign. Councils typically include a very 
varied group of specialists to represent the various factors of  elevn 
society i.e. an experienced war leader, a mage, a cleric or two, an 
artisan, an entertainer etc. The council also acts as a legal body 
and passes judgement on any elven criminals. The elven nobility are 
not part of any bloodline either, they are members of a supreme 
council that make decisions affecting all of wood elven kind, and are 
elected from the various smaller councils.

CRIME & JUSTICE
Wood Elves judge each crime on an individual 'case by case' basis. 
Elven justice is fair and wise, and the accused is allowed a hearing 
to prove his innocence or justify his act. The council only passes 
judgement after hearing all of the facts. Minor crimes (petty theft 
etc.) may receive a warning first off but repeat offenders are 
punished (being prevented from attending a festival is common).
Major crimes (short of murder or rape) result in immediate 
banishment. The most evil crimes mean immediate execution, with the 
body being cremated, and thus  prevented from nourishing the earth.

RELIGION
Gone are the days when elves had power over the gods, but their 
attitude reflects their greater understanding of this cosmic beings.
Elves are aware that these powerful beings still have limitations.
the elven relationship with their deities is much closer to brotherly 
respect than outright worship. The wood elves follow 5 primary gods:
Adamnan na Brionha, Liadriel, Meneloth, Karnos and Sho 'sarrah.

MAGIC
Magic is seen as an integral part of the elven culture and it is not 
viewed with the same superstition that less enlighteneed folk see it.
To the elves it is just another tool, albeit a powerful one. many 
elves aspire to become spell casters but only the most gifted and 
humble are ever accepted. Elven traditions of magic are ancient 
indeed, but they no longer wield the great power they used to.
The spell caster has great responsibilities to the community 
depending on thier area of expertise.
Illusionists are responsible for magical defence and entertaining.
Elementalists and clerics of Sho 'sarrah are responsible for defenses 
and provisioning.
Clerics of Adamnan are great warriors, and thus responsible for 
defense.
Clerics of Liadriel are responsible for festivities etc...

DEFENSE & WAR
As an isolationist culture, the elves take the defense of their homes 
very seriously. They have multiple layers of defense. being a good 
and cerebral folk they perfer the arts of misdirection and guile over 
the vulgar use of brute force. They use illusion magic and carefully 
crafted areas to lead their opponents away. if this fails they have 
cunning and well hidden traps (usually non-lethal, but becoming 
deadlier closer to the settlement). On the physical front they have 
posts and patrols of sentinels to give early warning of danger, or 
use darts coated with sleeping sap to drug accidental trespassers and 
dump them at the forests edge. The wood elven military is the 'Red 
Branch', a crack guerilla force. If the enemy is deliberately hostile 
or a natural enemy the Red branch or wardancers are called in, 
depending on the threat level. Being small in number, and good in 
alignment, the wood elves very rarely make war.

HUNTING & FORAGING
Hunting and foraging are the lifeblood of the settlement. foragers 
operate on a much more constant basis than most elven hunters, and 
set out every day to collect food for the community, be it tubers, 
plants, fruits, nuts, grubs, insects, fishing etc. The hunters leave 
the community twice a week and return with enough meat for the entire 
settlement. Wood elves try and use as much of a kill as possible (the 
hide for clothing, bones for needles & carving, meat for food, offal 
for the community hounds etc.). Wood elves only stockpile food in the 
winter, and keep a small cache for emergencies. elven hunters avoid 
the use of poison and trapping as unecessarily cruel. They avoid 
killing juveniles or pregnant females.

ELVEN FOOD & DIET
Elves, like the other races, are onmivores and see it as perfectly 
natural to eat meat. Obviously some do turm to a vegetarian diet but 
these are by no means the majority, and the subject is an area of 
lively debate. The primary difference between the elven consumption 
of meat and that of the other races is quantity. Elves only eat meat 
on a semi-regular basis, as a supplement to their primarily 
vegetarian diet. Elven cooking is regarded as an artform, and great 
pains are taken in preparation and presentation. typical elven 
ingredients include: nuts, berries, friut, tubers, herbs, mushrooms, 
truffles, wild garlic, wild fowl, boar, freshwater fish, venison, 
wild honey, fresh spring water and fruit juice, fruit wine and fruit 
brandy. They avoid eating eggs, seeing it in much the same light as 
consuming 'period' or foetus.
Elven food tends to be lightly cooked, fresh, and infused with herbs.
a typical meal might consist of fresh nut bread, lightly cooked and 
flavoured mushrooms with wild garlic, a small amount of tender meat,
a delicate soup, a crisped sliced tuber, served with a cool cup of 
friut wine or water. Elven sweets favour fresh or baked fruit served 
with light nut pastries and friut syrup. It is worth noting that 
elven meals are never served in the great quantities that other races 
are used to.

ARTS & CRAFTS
the elven culture places great empthasis on the arts and crafts as a 
source of great beauty, creation and individual expression. most 
evenings feature some kind of performance or display by the 
communities artists and entertainers. The elves see the arts as 
expanding the mind and imagination, and the arts are evident in every 
part of their lives. Even the most mundane item will be tastefully 
embellished. Obviously the elves favour natural materials for their 
arts, and have produced breath taking creations out of wood, stone, 
amber etc.

FESTIVALS
Among their own, elves are a gregarious people, fond of the pleasures 
in life. Elven festivals are held under every new moon and feature 
great feasts, dancing, singing, entertainers etc. These festivals 
have no real religious significance but the elves also hold festivals 
on days special to their gods, as a token of respect.

OUTCASTS
 No matter how good  ahome is no one can guarantee a child will feel 
at home. The lure of the unknown lures the elven curious elven young 
away from the settlements at an increasing rate.  Some grow sick of 
the static life and leave in search of adventure as a self imposed 
outcast. Others grow too wild for the community and leave to enter 
the outside world or end up accepted into the wardancers. Other 
'aberrants' (those few who commit crimes) are forced to leave and the 
worst of these end up as outlaws. the numbers of younger elves 
leaving the settlements is very low (perhaps 1 in 100) but is slowly 
and inexorably growing. Whether an outcast is ever accepted back or 
not depends very much on the circumstance of his exile.
Outcasts face a varied reaction in the outside world. areas of 
greater education may view him as a simple curiosity, but elves face 
bigotry in many rural areas where the people have been raised on 
ghost stories about elves (they steals babies they do...), or have 
conflicted with the elves over woodland resources...


BASIC CAREERS
==============

WARRIOR
01-05 Militia
06-10 Outlaw
11-75 Red Branch warrior
76-00 Sentinel

RANGER
01-15 Beastfriend
16-55 Forager
56-70 Forest Runner ( career created by Garett Lepper)
71-00 Hunter

ROGUE
01-50 Entertainer
51-75 Minstrel
76-95 Talecrafter 
96-00 Thief

ACADEMIC
01-10 Artisans App
11-25 Artists App
26-45 Herbalist
46-50 Hypnotist
51-65 Inceptor
66-75 Initiate
76-85 Seer
86-00 Wizards App

Notes: Elves do not use carts. remove the drive cart skill in all 
cases. There aren't any roads to their settlements. Horses are also 
unusual.
Those basic careers noted in the above tables but not covered below, 
are basically unchanged.
trappings and exits are not listed to give the GM the ability to fit 
them in his campaign.

>Artisans App
the wood elves are famed for their fine eye for detail and delicate 
craftsmanship. Although the magic users in the community can craft 
wood magically they are far from being as talented. The wood elven
artisans treat their craft as an artform, and meld beauty and 
functionality to perfection.
skills: replace all with 1 craft skill, and 1 art skill associated 
with that craft.

>Artists App
Many young elves apprentice themselves to recognised masters, but all 
are expected to express their individuality in their work. All 
artwork in wood elven society is public and presented for all to 
admire.
I+10  W+1  Dex+20
skills: 1 art skill (at +20%)

>Entertainer
The forms of entertainment in wood elven culture are:
Actor - the elves love great plays
Poet - elven poetry is eloquent, detailed and highly structured. much 
like japanese Haiku.
Comic - elven humour tends to be high brow, subtle and cryptic.
Singer - elves have lilting voices and the songs sang in their native 
tongue are truly beautiful.
Dancer - elves prefer elaborate troupe dances, and the wardancers 
excel at them.
Musician - the most popular wood elven instruments are flutes, 
piccolos, tambours. only the Minstrels play stringed instruments such 
as the lute, mandolin, or lyre.

>Forager
Foragers are the main food providers in an elven community along with 
the hunters. They are if anything more important because they provide 
the bulk of the food the community eats. They tend to operate in 
pairs, and can be ingenius in the places  they find food. They are 
very much at home in the wild.
W+1  I+10  Dex+10
Skills: Fish   Forage   Herb Lore
Identify Plants   Orientation   Scale sheer Surface

>Forest Runner ( a career created by Garett Lepper)
Elven communities are spread out throughout the forests. To mantain 
communication , every elven outpost and community relies upon a 
network of messengers. These forest runners carry messages back and 
forth. Warnings of danger, fire, invasion, summoning healers, and all 
other purposes. their roles are similar to that of the town criers in 
the cities. These typically nimble young elves play an important part 
in keeping elven safety and solidarity strong.
M+1  WS+10  W+2  I+20  Ld+10  Cl+10
Skills: Conceal Rural   Dodge Blow   Flee!
Fleet Footed   Follow Trail   
Orientation   Silent Move Rural

>Herbalist
The elven herbalists are famed healers and responsible for the 
physical well being of the communities.
skills: remove both Secret  langs.

>Hunter
The elven hunters are among the best bowmen in existence, and revel 
in the freedom of the chase. In times of war they make great archers. 
the hunt is one of the few times an elfs primal instincts are allowed 
to surface.
skills: remove Immunity to Poison, but add Fleet Footed and 
Marksmanship.

> Hypnotist
Elven hypnotists do not perform for entertainment or amusement. They 
are responsible for the mental health of the community. They train 
hard so they do not need a focus object, their gaze alone is strong 
enough.
trappings: remove silver charm

>Inceptor
While the wood elven communities have no universities they do have 
tutoring classes that any elf of any age is welcome to attend. Due to their love 
of learning, many elves do learn at least 1 knowledge skill, but some 
make learning their full time passion. These dedicated learners are the Inceptors.
W+1  I+10  Int+20  Cl+10  Fel+10
Skills: Read/Write
1 of the following and 50% for each of the others:
Astronomy   Extra language   History   Identify Plants

>Militia
The wood elven militia is only a very small force, intended as a last 
ditch defense, should the Red Branch and Wardancers fall. As a result 
of this 99% never see action. 
Skills: Disarm  Dodge Blow  Strike Mighty Blow  Strike to Stun

>Red Branch Warrior
The Red Branch are the wood elven military and are very different 
than the military of other races. Being fewer in number, but greater 
in intellect the Red Branch are the masters of guerilla warfare and 
small unit tactics. They rely on spped, mobility and surprise to beat 
forces with superior numbers. They are lethal in thie home 
environment but still able warriors elsewhere.
WS+10  BS+10  T+1  W+2  I+10  A+1  Ld+10  CL+10
skills: Concealment Rural   Disarm   Dodge Blow
Scale Sheer Surface  Silent Move Rural   Street fighter
Strike Mighty Blow   Strike to Stun   Sign Lang - Elven Warrior

>Sentinel
The sentinel is in essence a wood elven watchman and guard whose 
concern is not the actions of his fellow elves but those of 
outsiders. Sentinels keep an eye on the forest and watch for the 
approach of any unknowns. most have stationary posts that they share 
with Forest Runners, but some are involved in active patrolling. They 
communicate by neans of highly complex bird and animal calls that 
they mimic to perfection. Messages can be relayed in this manner via 
a network of sentinels to a settlement very quickly. For messages 
between settlements the Forest Runners are dispatched. Sentinels 
often deal with accidental trespassers by drugging them with poisoned 
darts (sleeping sap) and dumping them at the forests edge.
WS+10  BS+10  T+1  W+2  I+10  Dex+10  Cl+10
Skills: Acute Hearing   Concealment Rural
Dodge Blow   Follow Trail   Mimic
Orientation   Scale Sheer Surface   SW-Blowpipe
Silent Move Rural   Secret Signs - Sentinel Calls

>Talecrafter
Talecrafters hold a position nearly as esteemed as the minstrel in 
the wood elven society. Their domains are the great elven epics and 
parables and they entertain their listeners with great vocal 
performance and emotive speech. far from being hopeless retellers of 
tales they are famed for their ability to weave tales almost 
instantly on any subject.
WS+10  BS+10  W+2  I+20  Int+10  Fel+20
Skills: Charm   Etiquette   History
Public Speaking   Storytelling

>Thief
Thieves are true aberrants in wood elf society, but a very few elves 
find the lure of excitement too great to control. The elven thief 
steals for the thrill and cares little for what he steals. The items 
they choose are due to challenge level not value. Needless to say, 
operating in such small communities they are quickly caught. If they 
persist after a warning they may be exiled...
Exiled elven thieves sometimes plague rural areas or make their way 
to the city where they have to adapt to the strange urban setting and 
contend with or join the local guild.
There are no thieves guilds in the wood elven settlements.
Skills: Concealment Rural   Pick Pocket


ADVANCED CAREERS
================

>Artisan
skills: 1 Craft(with +10%)   1 Art (associated with the craft)
Magical Sense  Read/Write  Scroll lore

>Artist
W+2  I+10  Dex+40  Int+10  WP+10  Fel+10
Skills: Art (with additional +20%)
another Art   Magical Sense

>Councillor
Elven councillors have a great responsibility to their community as 
they make all emergency decisions, act as mediators in disputes, and 
act the the legal body.
W+2  I+20  Ld+30  Int+40  Cl+20  WP+30  Fel+20
skills: Charm   Etiquette   History
Public Speaking   Read/Write   Speak Additional Lang.

>Healer
The elven healer can be best thought of as an advanced herbalist or a 
holistic physician. All of their remedies and ingredients are 
woodland based, and they are much more humane than most human 
physicians.
T+1  W+2  I+20  Dex+30  Ld+10  Int+30  Cl+20  WP+20  Fel+20
skills: Cure Disease  Heal Wounds  Herb Lore
Identify Plant  Immunity to Disease  Manufacture Drugs
Surgery

>Outlaw Chief
remains unchanged

>Red Branch Unit Leader/Commando
The experienced Red Branch warriors go on to become unit leaders of 
the standard Red Branch, or commandoes who are given the most 
dangerous missions and operate on thier own or in pairs, and often 
act as scouts.
Unit Leader
WS+20  BS+20  S+1  T+1  W+4  I+20  A+1  Dex+10  Ld+20  Int+10
Cl+20  WP+10  Fel+10
Skills: as Warrior but add 'Strike to Injure'
Commando
WS+20  BS+20  S+1  T+1  W+4  I+20  A+1  Dex+10  Ld+10  Int+10
Cl+20  WP+10
Skills:As warrior plus Follow Trail  Shadowing  Flee!
Orientation  Strike to Injure

>Red Branch Warlord
These are the leaders and organisers of the Red branch military.
WS+30  BS+30  S+2  T+2  W+6  I+30  A+2  Dex+10  Ld+30  Int+20
Cl+30  WP+10  Fel+20
skills: As unit leader but add Tactics

>Savant
Savants are the wood elven tutors and scholars.
W+2  I+20  Dex+10  Ld+10  Int+40  Cl+10  WP+30  Fel+20
skills: Arcane Lang. Magick   Astronomy
Cartography  Extra Language  History
Identify Plants  Linguistics  Magic Sense
Read/Write  Rune Lore  50% each additional Identify skill.

>Sentinel Patrol Leader
WS+20  BS+20  S+1  T+1  W+4  I+20  A+1  Dex+20  Ld+10
Int+10  Cl+20  WP+10  
Skills: as sentinel but add Disarm, Marksmanship and Strike to Stun

>Sentinel Captian
WS+20  BS+30  S+2  T+2  W+6  I+30  A+2  Dex+30 Ld+20
Int+20  Cl+30  WP+10  Fel+10
skills: as patrol leader but add Strike to Injure and Strike Mighty 
Blow

>Wardancer (modified)
The wardancer is a powerful combination of warrior and graceful 
dancer. They are the shock troops of the wood elven communities, and 
are viewed as bizarre by their counterparts. they live in groups 
called toops led by a powerful wardancer and cleric of Adamnan, 
called the 'Dance Master'. Their favourite tactic is to approach 
their enemy unnoticed, surround them,  and launch a lethal attack.
The wardancer relies not on strength and power, but on speed, 
accuracy and their powerful skills. No wardancer would wear anything 
but the lightest armour, and many wear none, believing that it shows cowardice, 
and noting that it impairs their grace and manouverability. Some have 
even been known to enter combat 'skyclad'. 
M+1  WS+40  BS+20  S+1  T+2  W+6  I+30  Dex+20  Cl+30  Fel+10
skills: Acrobatics  Ambidextrous  Concealment Rural
Dance  Distract  Dodge Blow  Marksmanship - Thrown only
SW - Fist  Strike Mighty blow  Silent Move Rural  Street Fighter
Strike to Injure  Transfix  Warchant  Whirling Death
NOTE: the Dance Master is simply a Wardancer that has taken all of 
the skills and advances and progressed to become a cleric of Adamnan.

>Wizard
the wizard, elementalist and illusionist remain unchanged.


MAGICK
======

ARTEFACTS

The rules:
Dead Wood
1) Magically crafted dead wood items do not count as enchanted
2) Dead wood items are flammable
3) Dead wood items float
4) Wooden armour subtracts 1 point of damage if the total damage is 6 
or less. If it takes a blow of more than 7 damage it breaks.
5) Unhardened wooden shields count as unrimmed
6) If a wooden object comes into heavy contact with metal or stone, 
it breaks if the total damage is greater than 7. This includes 
contact with metal armour.
7) The druidic spell 'Disintigrate Wood' destroys wooden items, even 
if they are magically crafted.
8) As noted in the spells, wooden items weigh 50% of a comparable 
metal one. For weapons that rely on bludgeoning reduce the damage by 
-1.

Living Wood - as per dead wood, but with the following changes...
1) Living wood is less flammable
2) living wood is more flexible
3) It requires exposure to natural daylight for at least 2 hrs a day
4) it must be watered every 3 days ( 1pint per 10 enc)
5)It must be in contact with soil at least 1hr every 3 days.
6) Living wood grows tiny leaves/flowers as it ages (GMs discretion)
7) Living wood can repair itself at the rate of 1damage point per 2 
days. If an living wood item is broken or destroyed it cannot 
regenerate. It cannot regenerate fire damage.

The following items are constructed of magically crafted wood.
The use of 'hardened' and 'crafted' in this article refers to magical hardening
and crafting. It also includes a short note at the end on wooden 
items and the outcast elf.

>Ch 'nakan
Ch 'nakan (elven warclaws) are a favourite weapon of the elven 
wardancers and Caraidh (beastfriends). They are made of magically 
'crafted' and 'hardened' wood, bone or horn, and consist of five 3" long 
claws attached to a glove. If a combatant using ch 'nakan 
gets in close enough to her opponent she can prohibit them the 
effective of larger weapons such as swords.
Init: - , To Hit: - ,Dam:-1, Parry:-10, Enc:3 each, Cost: 1gc

>Emerald Weave
Emerald weave is a beautiful 'cloth' fashioned from living plant 
material. It is a fine weave of very fine tendrils and has the colour 
and sheen of leaves or grass. It is smooth, supple, and used for the 
very best wood elven clothing. It changes colour with the seasons 
(green in spring and summer, fire colours in autumn) but 'dies' in 
winter. When it dies it is returned to the soil and will not 
regenerate. It is gone. Emerald weave is extremely detailed and 
'crafted', so much so that it costs 27MP just to 'craft' it! An emerald weave 
tunic would cost 30MP to create. Also double the creation times for 
it. As it is crafted from grass and fine vines it often grows tiny leaves 
and flowers in the spring and summer, adding to it's visual appeal for 
wood elves. If emerald weave is ever 'hardened' it offers the same protection 
as leather but has the encumbrance of the article of clothing.
Wardancers favour 'hardened' emerald weave as armour, on the rare 
occasions they wear armour. It is far from common.

>Iar 'ehn
Iar 'ehn is the 'hardened' wooden plate mail.The wood itself comes from 
a tree that has been struck by lightning. The plate armour provides 1AP 
of protection on all locations, immunity to lightning attacks, and is not 
flammable.It looks like finely crafted wooden plate mail but has a slight black 
tint. It is too noisy for effective silent movement. Iar 'ehn is very 
exceptional, is only worn by the greatest elven heroes, and requires 
a long exhaustive and very MP intensive ritual. Only a dozen or so 
sets are known to exist. The wood must come from a tree that has been 
struck by naturally ocuring lightning. No spells can be involved. the 
wooden plate is crafted by hand before the ritual. Iar 'ehn is 
deadwood armour.

>L'asro
L'asro is a living plant weave hood and sleeved coat with leaves 
growing all over its outer surface. It provides excellent camouflage 
in the woodland environment (+20% to all concealment tests) but 
rustles when the wearer is in motion (+20% to opposing listen tests).
It is worn by the wood elven sentinels. It requires the same 
'crafting' MP costs as emerald weave. 

>Shi 'all
The shi 'all is a 'hardened' wood shortsword, with a leaf shaped 
blade 1'6" long and 5" wide. All wardancers receive a pair of 
shi 'all upon initiation and take great pride in them. 
rules: as hand weapon, enc: 40, cost: 12gc

>Teg 'nas
This is a short (3' long) 'hardened' warspear used by the wardancers.
Despite its length it is fairly heavy which adds weight to its 
impact. The wardancers usually carry one on their back and lob it at 
opponents prior to entering melee. The wardancers bring them to hand 
while approaching the enemy, so they do not have to perform acrobatic 
maneuvers with them. 
Dam: as spear, S: 4, L: 8, Ex: 20, Load: 1
Enc: 35, Cost: 30/

Wooden items and the outcast elf...
Wood elves who turn their backs on their society are never allowed to 
take anything but the most basic and mundane of the magically 
'crafted' and 'hardened' wooden items. At most they may have a 
'hardened' shortsword and shield, and these are just the equivalent 
of the metal versions (but flammable). They are never allowed to 
leave with any living wood items, as they are regarded as 'too 
irresponsible' (they are going adventuring after all). If they aren't 
careful their items will break, as even metal ones do. in these cases 
they have to turn to metal goods, because they can't go back to the 
woods and ask for replacements.

SPELLS

The following spells are known to Wood elven elementalists and clerics 
of Sho 'sarrah. These spells are regarded as sacred and only the most 
deserving of non elves will ever be allowed to learn them.

Heal Plant
Spell Level: Ele 1
MP: varies
Range: touch
Duration: permanent
Ingred: a handful of sap
This spell allows the user to cure plants of diseases, heal cuts in 
bark and wood, and repair broken wooden items.
It costs 3MP per point of damage to heal or repair a living plant.
It costs 6MP per point of damage to repair a broken wooden item.
To cure a plant of disease it cost 3MP for a shrub or bush, 6MP for a 
small tree, and 12MP for a large tree.
this spell cannot heal/repair that which has been totally destroyed.

Sleeping Sap
level: El 2
MP: 3 per dose
Range: Touch
duration: the sap has a 10% cumulative chance per week of spoiling
Ingrediants: some pollen
This spell infuses the sap of any plant with sleep inducing 
qualities. The sap must be produced/tapped from a living plant, and ingested, or 
enter through a wound to have any effect.
the target must roll vs. T or pass out for d3 hours. even if the roll 
is made the target is still drowsy (penalties of -1/-10% to all 
characteristics) for d8+4, minus T hours.
It costs double the MP to produce a thicker sap, suitable for 
weapons, arrows etc.
This spell can be cast on living wood items.

Shape the Fallen Branch
level: El 2
MP: varies
Range: Touch
Duration: permanent
Ingredients: a small stone blade
Creation Time: 1 day per 5 enc.
This spell allows the caster to shape dead wood into any form he 
desires. There are several restrictions to this:
1) the wood cannot gain or loose mass (but a smaller piece of wood 
can be crafted out of a larger)
2)The item made is still made of wood and has it's attributes, burns, 
same T etc.)
3) Wood objects only weigh half as much as comparable metal ones.
obvious exceptions to this are staves, clubs, spears, arrows, bows 
etc. The wooden weight should be factored in before MP cost is 
calculated.
The MP cost varies on the changes in detail and the size of the 
object.
Cost of Size:3MP per 10enc (round up)
Cost of Detail (per 10 enc): 
3MP to smooth or polish
6MP to create sharp edges or points
9MP for fine detail such as runes
18MP for heavy detail such as a finely detailed woodland scene.
example: to create 2 smooth, sharp, wooden daggers costs 12MP.

Craft the Living Green
level: El 3
MP:varies
Range:Touch
Duration: permanent
Ingredients: small stone blade
This spell is identical in all respects to the 2nd level spell 'Shape 
the Fallen Branch' but works on living plants. Triple the crafting 
time.

Harden the Fallen Branch
level: 3
MP: varies
range:touch
Duration: permanent
ingredients: a small flame
hardening time: 1 day per 5 enc
This spell allows the caster to harden any dead wood to the strength 
of steel. It can be cast on crafted wooden objects.
it effectively removes the breakage penalties of wooden objects, 
makes wooden shield count as rimmed, and makes 
wooden armour the equal of metal (1AP per location, vs. all attacks).
Unfortunately the wooden objects are still flammable, and the object 
gains in weight to equal the usual full enc. value.
MP cost: 3MP per 10enc (round up) of wooden weight.
example: a wooden sword costs 9MP to harden.

Harden the Living Green
level: El 4
MP: varies
range: touch
duration: permanent
ingredients: a small flame
this spell operates as the 3rd level spell 'Harden the Fallen Branch' 
but works on living plants. Double the hardening time.

Example of creation:
It requires 45MP and 12 days to magically craft and harden a dead 
wood sword. 
 
