From selin@acs.ucalgary.caWed Oct 25 14:13:46 1995
Date: Sat, 21 Oct 1995 22:43:40 -0600 (MDT)
From: Joanne Selin <selin@acs.ucalgary.ca>
Reply to: The wfrp mailing list <wfrp@gojira.monsta.com>
To: wfrp@gojira.monsta.com
Subject: WFRP: The Woodcutters Shack

GM Notes:  this "lair"can be used anywhere along a fairly remote forested 
roadway.  Its a bit on the dark side, so be warned.  The besttime to use 
it is just as the sun is setting, when your tired PCs are looking for a 
place to halt for the night.  What follows has been written with PCs 
being on foot, so you can make adjustments as you see fit.  Description 
for the PCs is in quotes.

"As you trudge along the worn road you notice that the forest shadows are 
growing longer each passing minute.  The air is noticeably cooler, a 
definite chill envelopes you.  The few clouds overhead are turning bright 
reddish orange as the sun begins its final descent.  A large black raven 
rises above the roadway, slowly circling, and then heads off into the 
gathering twilight. "

OBS test:  success gives the following "The woods are silent.  As if all 
living things are holding their breath."

"As you continue meandering past potholes and the odd cobble you notice a 
narrow dirt path leading into the woods."

Init. test:  success= detection of a trail of old, sticky blood heading 
into the underbrush at the intersection.  Further searching finds a 
body.  Its a man, 50ish.  His leather jerkin is split open along his 
back.  Flies buzz around.  Any rural type PC will notice that his 
clothing shows his profession as a woodcutter.

"Further along this narrow path you note that it winds around to the 
right.  The thick undergrowth and large trunks block your view.  It is 
getting darker.  In what little light is left you can make out two 
smaller forms lying on the path near the turn.  Everything is silent and 
still."

"The two forms are bodies of a young boy, around eight years of age.  His 
hand clasps the detached arm of a little girl that lays grotesquely 
nearby.  The terror on their faces is pitifully obvious.  Large hack 
marks marr their bodies."

	If you are using Insanity, roll vs. each PCs cool.  Failure by 
10% or more gains one point.

"Beyond the sickening sight, a ways ahead, you can barely make out the 
shape of a small shack.  A small lighted window, half shuttered is 
visible through the branches and brush.  The path leads towards the 
structure."

"As you approach you can make out a garbled voice and hear a rythmic 
scraping sound, like metal on stone.  The clapboard building is a few 
paces long and seems square from your vantage.  The wood door hangs from 
one hinge and the light from within escapes into the evening darkness."

-if the PCs call out, a womans voice calls back, "Dinners ready Steiner 
my love.  Bring the children....bring the children...Steiner...mad..mad"
-any PCs sneaking around the shack must roll vs DEX or stumble over a low 
wood pile causing a large racket.  When it quiets, the PCs hear the wood 
floor squeak a bit and the scraping stops.
-any PC trying to glimpse through the half window, or doorway, will see a 
tall, handsome woman, wearing typical reikland dress with dark brown 
stains all over it.  She is holding a large woodsmans axe and a whetstone.
-should a PC charge the door and smash it in, force them to rollvs. DEX 
or stumble over the body of a man.  As they sprawl into the shack, they 
instantly lose a full round.
-the woman will not go outside, even if they raze it.
-anyone entering the shack, asking what happened will be met by the 
womans odd stare.  She'll say, "Ach, Steiner.  You've come in before I 
set the table....Steiner.... leibling...the Raven is gone now.  Where are 
the children...madness..."

	Helga Untermeyer-  woodcutters wife
	M   WS   BS   S   T   W   I  A  DEX   LD   INT   CL  WP  FEL
	4   43   28   4   3   7  44  1  33    33   33    33  33  29
	***subject to frenzy after speaking to PCs- roll vs Cool

	Skills: Cook, ID plants, set trap, silent mov.rural, conc.rural, 
follow trail, specialist weapon- 2hnd. weapon (woodsmans axe).
	Trappings: woodsmans axe, whetstone.

	Helga has gone off the edge and whacked everyone.  She'll whack 
the PCs too (They all look like Steiner, her dead husband).  If she is 
too easy to take out, give her a fate point- make em sweat a bit.

There is nothing of value in the shack, unless the GM decides otherwise.
The dead man on the floor was a traveller- dressed in fine clothing.  He 
seems to have lost his head over this matter, and his coin purse lays 
split open on the floor beneath him- the blood covered coins are mostly 
silver  (2D10) and D6 gold coins.  The GM could use the traveller as a 
clue holder that the PCs have missed during their adventures.

Flesh this out as much as you like.

Written by Dave Selin


Comments are welcome,

Dave Selin
selin@acs.ucalgary.ca
