The Underworld in WFRP


(Obligatory copyright statement)
I am releasing the following material from another article 
I have written which may be used only in a GM's home 
campaign.  The status of the article is that it has been 
submitted some time ago to another Company undergoing 
reorganized.  I reserve all rights to the descriptive 
material, including locations and characters, while 
system-specific material is copyright by GW.

Alfred Nunez
Hauptdirektor- Schwarzmantel
copyright 1993 Alfred Nunez


BEHIND THE SCENES

A Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay Look at the Underworld and 
Covert Organizations in the Old World 

In the darkened room where he felt most comfortable, Hans 
Lichterfinger worked quietly; quietly as a cat prowling for 
mice. This job was his most challenging yet.  More so than 
the townhouses in Nuln's Neupalast district.  He had thought 
crossing the Niederfluss district would have taken more 
effort, but his skills at disguise and concealment proved more 
than adequate. Entry into the townhouse of Ludwig Grossfaust, 
chief bookkeeper for "Il Padrone," was also relatively easy.  
In fact, the only hard part of this job was finding the hidden 
safe.  It had to be somewhere in this room. 

Hans had approached the bookcase at the far end of the room 
when he heard footsteps.  Scurrying toward the window from 
which he entered, Hans hid behind the heavy drapery.  The 
sounds of approach ceased.  The door opened and two men entered.

"As I told Il Padrone, I think the new guy in Protection, your 
partner, is some sort of spy.  Maybe one of Kafka's men, or 
even one of the Graukappen."

"Where d' ya git da idea dat he's a spy, Herr Grossfaust?"

"A couple of the boys have noticed some rather odd behavior 
on his part.  In addition, the collections from Protection 
have not met the projections."

"Whatcha goin' ta do?"

Ludwig walked towards the window.  As he neared, Ludwig 
paused for an moment, then turned toward the man from 
Protection.  "At the moment, nothing but watch and wait.  
Anyway, it's getting late and I need you to keep an eye on 
this new guy.  I'm going to get someone from Enforcement 
to talk to you about some plans to trap your partner.  Why 
don't you return to your flat and get some rest.  Enforcement 
will be there by early morning.  Karl will show you out."

Hans remained as he was while Ludwig returned to the center 
of the room and the other man left.  Slowly, quietly he 
reached for the window latch.  Ludwig seated himself at 
the large oak desk and began to write a note.  Moments later, 
another individual entered and stood near Ludwig.  The 
bookkeeper put down his pen, folded the paper, and sealed it 
with wax.

"Karl, send this letter to our 'unofficial' contact at the 
Schwarzmantel.  She has an appointment with the man who just 
left.  This pouch," Ludwig tossed something onto the desk 
that clinked like a large amount of coins, "will ensure that 
it will look like an accident."  Ludwig rose and walked over 
to the open window.  Closing it, he espied a figure clad in 
black racing across the grounds.  "Also, put word on the 
street that there will be 20 Crowns for anyone with 
information on an uptown 'Cat' who lost his way tonight."


ORGANIZED CRIME IN THE OLD WORLD

Organized crime is found in all cities and most of the 
larger towns in the Old World.  Some of these organizations 
are family run operations like those headed by Fritz Kafka 
in Nuln and Francesco Sarducci in Altdorf.  Others are 
organized as a guild similar to most any other guild (some 
say that the Merchants' Guild is just another name for a 
Thieves' Guild).

The rest are street gangs of young toughs (known as "Punk 
Gangs" in some quarters).  Except in large cities, only 
one of these organizations exist in any given city or town.  
In the larger cities, a number of these crime groups will 
coexist in a rather uneasy truce.  Each will operate within 
established turfs whose boundaries change with an 
organization's relative strength to its rivals.  An 
exception to this is Brionne, City of Thieves, in Bretonnia 
where the city is run by a council of crime organizations, 
Le Cartel des Poing (headed by the Governor of Brionne 
himself).

Structurally, these crime organizations have many 
similarities, as well as differences.  At the top, these 
structures are directed by a Crime Lord.  Depending on the 
nature of the group, these individuals are called 
Guildmaster, Padrone, Boss, Big Man, Godfather, Big Cheese, 
Numero Uno, etc.  After the Crime Lords are their trusted 
lieutenants.  In the cases of Guilds and Families, these 
lieutenants are responsible for a specific area of the 
"business" (Enforcement, Protection, and Collections). 
Reporting to these lieutenants are another layer of 
"bureaucrats."  These would be "blind contacts" for the grunts 
in the organization.  Blind contacts are those who meet the 
footsoldiers in darkened rooms, behind screens, through 
closed windows.  Essentially, any situation in which 
communications are other than face-to-face.  In contrast, 
Punk Gangs deal directly with their members and lieutenants 
are merely a second level in the pecking order.

The central difference between the three types of crime 
organizations is found in their methods of conducting 
"business." The most basic of the three is the Thieves' 
Guild organization. The Guild (as it is known by its members) 
is a secret organization that operates outside the mainstream 
of society. Members are sworn upon pain of death not to reveal 
or acknowledge the Guild's existence to outsiders (using Guild 
secret languages, rituals, and signs to recognize one another).  
In the tradition of pyramid schemes, the Guild exists so that 
the leaders can sponge off the profits of criminal activity in 
their turf while giving the illusion of benefit to its members.  
Ranald, God of Thieves and Tricksters, does delight in that 
jest! "Jobs" are doled out based upon favoritism with the most 
dangerous being assigned to dissenters within the ranks.  
"Benefits", such as training and protection, still require 
payment of a tithe to the upper echelon of the Guild.

Naturally, most thieves in a Guild are blind to any negative 
aspects of the Guild.  Actually, many truly believe that the 
Guild is their protection against an otherwise hostile world 
(Ranald smiles upon those with the foresight to take 
advantage of the unknowing).

Unlike Guilds, family-run crime is operated in a manner 
similar to large merchant houses.  The Family's business 
extends from illegal activities (loan sharking, smuggling, 
and extortion) to legal businesses (trade and operating 
gambling casinos) to philanthropic causes (financing soup 
kitchens).  Businesses are strictly segmented (e.g., 
Protection, Enforcement, Loans) and headed by a high ranking 
member of the Family.  These individuals are, in turn, 
ultimately accountable to the head (Crime Lord) of the Family.  
The Family works within the framework of society by 
compromising or bribing those who may interfere with or 
adversely affect the Business.  Any who cannot be compromised 
may find themselves tied up in the courts by the legions of 
lawyers employed by the Family.  Worse, they might be tied to 
a rock at the bottom of a river, lake, or other large body of 
water (the deeper the better).

The Street or "Punk" Gangs are the most violent.  Eschewing 
any pretense of working within society's framework (avoiding 
them altogether) Punkers utilize intimidation and violence to 
cower others.  Needless to say, many Punkers are young (teens 
to early twenties) and impulsive.  Rarely do they live a long 
life.  Most will meet a violent and bloody end (usually at the 
hands of another Punker) long before they realize the trap 
into which they have fallen.  Victims of their crimes also 
stand a good chance of being snuffed out.  Punkers do not have 
the patience, finesse,nor inclination to plan a "job" to 
minimize their risks.  A source of great pride for a Punker is 
the number of victims they have "taken out".  It increases 
their standing in the Gang (Worshippers of Khaine, Lord of 
Murder, find some of their best recruits from Punk Gangs).

Given the violence which surrounds them, Crime Lords and their 
lieutenants are always accompanied by bodyguards.  Especially 
when gang warfare erupts in their turf.  Such wars may be 
caused by:
(1) nearby organizations sensing a rival's sudden weakness;
(2) a new Crime Lord trying to carve out his own turf;
(3) a more powerful organization's desire to humble an upstart 
rival or
(4) revenge in a blood feud.

Naturally, these wars result in a large number of casualties 
(many fatal).  Some of those fatal are found and buried in 
paupers' cemeteries, while others find their way into more 
imaginative locations such as lake and river bottoms, or the 
foundations of new manor houses or castles.


CRIME LORD

Description: Crime is well organized in the large cities of 
the Old World.  In some places, things are organized in 
guild fashion with a Guildmaster at the top surrounded by 
trusted lieutenants.  In other places, such as Tilean 
City-States, these organizations are like a family business 
with the head of the extended family ("Don", or "Padrone" in 
Tilean families) as "Boss" surrounded by his sons and other 
trusted family members.  These Crime Lords usually control 
most of the illegal activities in their areas of control 
(smuggling, extortion, slavery, illegal gambling, and loan 
sharking).

These activities are covered by legitimate ones (mostly the 
Family-run operations) such as trade and craft. In addition, 
many Crime Lords contribute to openly philanthropic causes, 
especially for the poorer classes.  The Street or Punk Gangs 
are the exception to this as they deal with the world on 
their own violent terms.

Would-be Crime Lords have to either take over a current Crime 
Lord's territory or carve out a piece of that territory.  
Either way, the would-be Crime Lord would have to initiate 
gang warfare. A would-be Crime Lord can become a Crime Lord 
in fact only by surviving such a war and gaining territory 
and exclusively directing criminal activity therein.  Ensuing 
warfare can erupt at any time.


 M   WS   BS   S   T   W    I   A   Dex  Ld   Int  Cl   WP   Fel
 --  +30  +30  +2  +2  +5  +30  +2  +30  +40  +30  +30  +20  +20


Skills:
Bribery
Charm
Dance
Embezzling
Etiquette
Evaluate
Immunity to Poison
Numismatics
Secret Language- Guilder
Specialist Weapon- Firearms
Spot Trap
Street Fighter
Torture

Trappings:
Hand Weapon
Hidden Pistol
Townhouse
Warehouse(s)
10D6 Gold Crowns
2D6 Bodyguards
2D6 Racketeers

Career Entries:
Assassin
Outlaw Chief
Racketeer
Slaver

Career Exits:
Nil


COVERT OPERATIONS

No self-respecting crime organization would be complete 
without some way to handle those delicate situations in a 
rather final and tidy manner.  This is where the assassin 
steps in.

Assassins' guilds are rumored to exist in only the largest of
 Old World cities.  These guilds are headed by a Grandmaster 
whose identity, and those of their lieutenants, are the closest 
of secrets.  Few of the lowest rung of assassins know who the 
identity of their most immediate contact, much less that of 
those above.  The cost of an assassin's services is predicated 
upon four things:
(1) the experience of the assassin;
(2) the social standing of the target;
(3) the abilities of the target itself (i.e. another 
assassin? A Judicial Champion? Perhaps a skilled fighter?) and
(4) whether the assassin controls the manner and timing of the 
hit.

Assassins who are not members of a formal organization are 
known as "free agents."  They are commonly found in the 
seedier (and deadlier) parts of the largest cities and towns 
in the Old World. Contacting these people for a job is a 
risky and uncertain proposition.  Many are the times where 
the client ends up as the victim instead.  Generally, contact 
is made through the barkeeps whose run down taverns and dives 
are frequent in these vermin-infested parts of town.

Like assassins, spies are also feature prominently in the 
world of organized crime.  Unlike assassins, spies are 
generally attached to one organization or another.  It is not, 
however, altogether uncommon to find a free agent spy.  Like the 
free agent assassins, these spies are contacted through sources 
in the worst part of town.


USE OF SPIES AND ASSASSINS

In normal, everyday operations, crime organizations may 
employ spies against rival organizations.  The more tense 
the relations between  organizations the more spies are 
used to probe the rival's defenses for weaknesses.  Most 
of their efforts are directed towards identifying a 
disgruntled member of the upper echelon likely to "turn" 
or betray the Crime Lord).  Spies are also utilized to 
keep tabs on Merchant houses (another natural rival to 
the organizations), the City Watch, City Garrisons, 
various Guilds, and selected Houses of the Nobility.

In times of gang warfare, assassins are hired to eliminate 
rivals, other assassins hired by their rivals, and any other 
perceived threats.  These assassins are not members of the 
crime organization, but are free agents whose methods of 
operation are known to a number of Crime Lords and their 
lieutenants. Sometimes after an assassin hits a particular 
organization he may find himself in the employ of that 
"victim" organization to return the "favor" by hitting the 
organization that initially employed him.

Like crime organizations or guilds, most Old World nations 
and city-states employ spies. While serving a similar purpose, 
these organizations vary by nation as to the manner in which 
they operate.

Some groups are highly structured, centralized, and efficient 
like the Marienburg Effenmunten and the Imperial 
intelligence-gathering agency, the Graukappen.  Based in 
Altdorf, the Graukappen are  attached to the Imperial River 
Patrol headed by Count Siegfried von Walfen of Reikland.  A 
cousin of the late Emperor Karl Franz I. The Count was 
Internal Minister of the Imperial River Patrol during his 
cousin's reign and continued into that of Heinrich X.

Other covert operations, like the Bretonnian Les Sans Face, 
are distrustful and decentralized.  Their members spend more 
time spying on other chapters than they do on other targets.  
Still others are a combination, highly centralized but 
untrusting.  The Estalian Los Piadosos exemplify this variety 
of operation.  An arm of the Inquisition, their time is spent 
rooting out heretics from the people as well as their own 
ranks. 

As with crime organizations, assassins are a tool of Old 
World governments.  In a few cases, they are a branch within 
the Intelligence agency, as is the case with the Estalian 
Los Piadosos.  More commonly, they are an organization in a 
separate Ministry and described as "Special Services."  These 
organizations discreetly handle situations involving traitors, 
spies, demagogues, agitators, and any others designated as 
"Enemies of the State."  The Middenheim-based Schwarzmantel, 
serving the Empire, is a well known example of a Special 
Services organization.

Other organizations that may employ large numbers of spies and 
the occasional assassin include most of the powerful guilds 
(such as Merchant Guilds) and the large Merchant Houses.  These 
spies are generally used against one another for market and 
other advantages.  It is a rare occasion when the large Merchant 
Houses or Guilds employ spies against the crime organizations.  
Lesser guilds (Teamsters and Stevedores) hire muscle and thugs 
only from within their own ranks.


CAT BURGLARS

There are times, all the same, when the skills of spies and 
assassins do not fill the bill.  For these highly specialized 
jobs only the finesse of a Cat Burglar will suffice.

When it comes to break-ins and thievery, no one matches the 
Cat Burglar for sheer ability.  Although loners and very 
independent, it is the rare challenge that will entice a "Cat" 
to leave his normal haunts in the high and upper middle class 
districts. Since successful conclusion of their work furthers 
their reputation, these jobs must be against high-profile 
targets with an exceptional degree of difficulty. 

Contacting a Cat is very difficult as their identities are 
closely kept secrets.  When not prowling places a Cat frequents 
are as individual as the Cat.  Some organizations use spies to 
track Cats back to their lairs.  This will enable the 
organization to compromise a Cat, making them more agreeable 
to "accepting" commissions.  Of course, finding and tracking 
down a Cat is no easy task.  Many are the occasions where a Cat 
was spotted and lost after a long and merry chase (as if the Cat 
sensed that it was being followed).  Thus, trying to find a Cat 
or a place to leave word to arrange a meeting with one is a 
challenge in itself.


CAT BURGLAR

Description: In most Old World nations, only the eldest son of 
noble inherits the family fortune.  Many younger sons follow a 
military career so as to experience the thrilling, and bloody, 
pursuit of war. Others seek a celebrated status more suited to 
their class.  So they undertake the task of becoming skilled in 
the art of burglary, while developing the flair and style which 
will give them the notoriety they crave.

Many take on colorful monikers ("the Panther," etc.) and leave a 
calling card (perhaps a white monogrammed glove) at the scene of 
their crime.  Besides the nobility, more talented charlatans may 
become "Cats."  Most develop a facade of noble birth, as well as 
the style and flair required of Cats.

In order to locate and case potential victims, Cats mix in High 
Society.  They attend the lavish parties and social events 
frequented by the nobility.  A number of Cats adopt foreign 
accents and titles (Count or Viscount of something exotic) so 
as to intrigue potential victims, especially those of the 
opposite sex.  Cats may, as necessary, develop a "relationship" 
with their victim before the heist.  In most cases, however, the 
Cat will avoid any deep personal involvement.

Besides the thrill of the burglary, Cats need the money.  Fencing 
stolen merchandise funds their extravagant lifestyles.  After all, 
living as nobility requires lots of money.  The fencing of stolen 
items is usually handled by underlings who will never reveal their 
employers.  These underlings will deal "blind" (anonymously) with 
fences or they will hire other "blinds" to interact with fences.

Whenever a Cat senses that they may have "overhunted" their 
territory (i.e., they have robbed just about everybody) and 
are at high risk of capture, they move on.  In some cases, too 
many Cats may turn up in a city.  This situation will usually 
end up in an unseen, though not unfelt, war between Cats until 
the number is reduced to that which the city can support.  The 
losers of these secret wars are either driven off to another 
locale or are killed.


 M   WS   BS   S   T   W    I   A   Dex  Ld   Int  Cl   WP   Fel
 --  +20  +30  +1  +2  +4  +30  --  +30  +20  +20  +30  +20  +30


Skills:                         Skills:
Blather                         Bribery
Charm                           Concealment Urban
Dance                           Etiquette
Evaluate                        Gamble
Heraldry                        Luck
Numismatics                     Palm Object
Pick Lock                       Pick Pocket
Read/ Write                     Ride
Scale Sheer Surface             Secret Language- Thieves' Tongue
Secret Signs- Thieves' Signs    Seduction
Sense Magic Alarm               Silent Move Urban
Sixth Sense                     Specialist Weapon- Fencing
Spot Trap                       Wit

Trappings:                      Trappings:
Black-Hooded Tunic              Expensive Clothes
Hand Weapon                     Lockpicking Tools
Ordinary Clothes                Rope- 10 yards
Townhouse                       6D6 Gold Crowns

Career Entries:  
Charlatan
Noble

Career Exits:
Locksmith
Spy