From: "G.G.Lepper" <ZZA95GGL@sheffield.ac.uk>
To: wfrp@gojira.monsta.com
Subject: WFRP: >New Career: Sensitive


New Basic Career: Sensitive

  A little seed of Chaos is in every person.  That little seed can 
twist and alter people.  However, sometimes, the taint of chaos 
doesn't always come in physical form.  For some it can be a curse, 
for others, a blessing. 
  A Sensitive is a person tainted by Chaos, and as a result receives 
some time of precognitive types of power.  They don't start off with 
a career, because up until this point in their lives, they relied on 
their "gifts" to get them through life.

 WS  BS S T   W     I   A   Dex   Ld   Int    Cl   WP   Fel
+10    -   -  -   +2 +10   -       -       -   +10 +10 +20     -
  Skills:
Roll once:
  01-15 Clairaudience
  16-40 Clairvoyance
  41-65 Empathy
  66-100 Psychometry
Magical Awareness
Sixth Sense
50% chance of Meditation

  Career Entries:
  None.  This career should only be used when the GM gives it to a 
player as a starting career for a specific campaign.  If you are 
given this career by the GM, it means you're probably an exceptional 
player, and can handle the responsibility!  Don't disappoint your GM!
  Career Exits:
  Could be anything.  Since the Sensitive has relied on his/her 
abilities, it's really up to the players' roleplaying abilities and 
the GM kindness to both determine exits.  Exits in the academic field 
are most likely, e.g Wizard's Apprentice. 
 
Note:  Before the character could control their gift, they often 
experienced random and painful experiences.  For example, a 
Clairaudient of voyant seeing their father beat their mother 
senseless in the next room.  The gifts also occur in their dreams, so 
sometimes others' nightmares creep into theirs.  All this 
uncontrolled mayhem has played havoc with the Sensitives mind, and 
therefore, they have start with one mental disorder.  This can be 
determined by the GM, or rolled randomly

Sensitive's Gifts
  Clairaudience: 
  The sensitive can hear things beyond their range of hearing.  A 
sensitive sitting in their room in the inn, could possibly hear all 
the activity happening in the inn.  They rarely hear whole 
conversations, but usually just hear fragments.  If a sensitive wishes to use 
this ability, they must roll under their WP.  If successful, they may 
(GM's allowance) be able to hear what's going on in a nearby area.  
The range for this ability is the WP stat in yards.  WP=30, the 
Sensitive can pick up a specific conversation within 90 yards.

  Clairvoyance
  The sensitive can see things beyond their range of vision.  They 
often get flashes of imagery, for a few seconds, faces, clothing, but 
they can't understand what is being said.  Even with read lips, the 
sight is ethereal, and such a skill could not normally be used.  The 
possible range and use for this skill is the same as Clairaudience.

  Empathy
  The sensitive is particularly aware of the emotional state of a 
person nearby.  Usually, this is a fairly passive skill.  A person's 
mental state is usually visible from their body language.  And 
Empathy just confirms what the sensitive's other perceptions tell 
him.  But in cases of extreme mental distress, insanity, or emotional 
intensity, the Empath will become more aware, and can look through 
people's image management.  If the Empath thinks somebody is lying to 
them, they can use Empathy to sense guilt.  If when questioning the 
person, and they feel guilty, it still might concern something else.  
Maybe the fellow slept with his friends wife.  If the person is a 
sociopath, no guilt would be detected.
  The emotions that can be picked up would be like exuberance, 
happiness, contentment, anger, hatred, rage, sadness, loneliness, 
apathy, guilt, frustration, and other extremes.
  To find the effective range for this skill, it's one tenth of the 
empath's WP in feet.  WP of 40, effective range of four feet.  To use 
this skill to probe someone's mental state, a test against WP in 
needed.  If successful, the senstive has discovered only the person's 
mental state, not the reasons for it.

  Psychometry
  The sensitive is particularly aware of the latent  experiences 
stored in objects.  By touching an object, and successfully testing 
against WP, the psychometrist can pick up fleeting images attached to 
the object.  A weapon might conceal glimpses of it's maker, it's 
bearers, or its victims.  But which are which, the sensitive might 
not know.  It could be very dangerous, picking up strange objects, or 
Chaos artifacts!  Problems using the bedpans, or garderobes also.
  The range for this ability is touch.  How much of these fleeting 
images is understood by the psyometrist is determined by the GM and 
the success of the dice roll.

Note:  each intentional  use of a Sensitive's gift by the PC, whether
successful or not, reduces the Sensitives Will Power by ten.  There
is a cost for exerting oneself!  This is not recovered until the Sensitive has 
slept.  If the GM uses the Sensitive's gift to advance the game 
along, the GM decides whether or not to subtract from Will Power.
  Also, if a Sensitive, when testing against Will Power, rolls a 
double (e.g. 66, 88, 100), and that double is above their Will Power, 
they're ability has worked, but in a horrible way.  A Clairvoyant or 
Clairaudient may have peered into the Chaos realms, an Empath may 
have looked into places in a person's heart that shouldn't be viewed!
And a Psychometrist might have almost lost their personality in the 
object they were examining.  
  When this happens, the Sensitive must immediately make a WP roll 
based on the new reduced level.  If they succeed, they gain 1 
Insanity Point, and can avoid the worst of it.  If they fail, they 
gain 1d6 insanity points, as the horror of it alters their minds!
  Looking places you shouldn't, SHOULD BE RISKY!  This is
not a Psionic character class.  This is a person tainted with
Chaos, (but not Chaotic), and it's both a curse and a blessing!!!
This brings that taint in humanity into play in the game.  Chaos
is in every human!  By the way, this is for humans only!

Notes:  Most rolls for the initial use of the "gifts"  should be
done by the GM.  A success, may give vague clues.  Give cryptic
or obscure answers.  Don't answer, "Yeah, she feels guilt.  The type
of guilt that only a high Priestess of the Golden Phallus of Slaanesh 
should feel!"  No, more like "You sense a dark and turbulent past 
about this woman.  You feel a shiver up your spine."  A person who
relies only on their "gift" should get set up by the GM to humble 
the player! 
  A failed non critical use  may produce nothing, or a false or an 
 irrelevant image decided by the GM.  That's why the roll should 
be done in secret.  Whether or not successful, the GM should make 
sure that the WP drops. This increases the chance of the exhausted 
and weary Sensitive of making a mistake...
  Also, the GM can use passive (GM induced effects, as opposed to 
active use, chosen by the PC.) effects to move the game along.  The 
character's are going nowhere, the GM passes the sensitive a note, 
with a vision.  They neglected to get the power word neccessary for 
the artifact, the GM gives the Sensitive a note.  Since it's not the 
Player using the ability actively, more a plot device of the GM, WP 
should not drop, since it's a perk compared to the other 
disadvantages.
  This also gives the GM a constant plot device, and the ability to 
pass lots of secret little notes!  Which I love to do!
  The GM should only give this starting Basic career to an 
exceptional role player, and only then if it's part of the campaign.  
This career should never be used as a random role!
  Also, the GM should not show undue favor to the Sensitive.

















































































Si

  Cheers!

         Rev. Garett Lepper
         zza95ggl@sheffield.ac.uk

"Before bed, I prefer to bludgeon myself to sleep."
  -DM, Bob 3:16
