From WFRP-owner@cool.khis.com Sat Dec 18 13:38:27 1993
Received: from cool.khis.com by sol.newcastle.edu.au with SMTP id AA06195
  (5.65c/IDA-1.4.4 for peterson); Sat, 18 Dec 1993 13:38:09 +1100
Received: by cool.khis.com id AA18139
  (5.65c/IDA-1.4.4 for wfrp-list); Fri, 17 Dec 1993 19:02:22 -0600
Date: Fri, 17 Dec 1993 19:02:22 -0600
Message-Id: <199312180102.AA18139@cool.khis.com>
To: WFRP@cool.khis.com
From: <kenrolston@aol.com>
Reply-To: WFRP@cool.khis.com (The WFRP mailing list)
Sender: WFRP@cool.khis.com (The WFRP mailing list)
Errors-To: WFRP-owner@cool.khis.com
Subject: Color Magick for Realms of Sorcery
X-Bmwmail: 4.0a
X-List: The WFRP mailing list
Status: RO

Ken Rolston here:

I've begun work on a draft for publication of Realm of Sorcery. Apart from
ruthless editing and some presentation flourishes, it's pretty complete...
except I'd like to add some touch of color magick to the system so I can use
the neat graphic elements proposed in WD113 and WD114. System-wise, the
inclusion would be purely chrome, so I need to keep the design additions to
the absolute minimum.

Here are rough notes on my current notions. Comments and other bad ideas are
encouraged, as are questions like: "What the dickens ARE you talking about?"
Folks who have seen the pirate version of Realms of Sorcery will best
understand what's being said. And by the way, those pirate versions must
disappear pretty soon. When publication of Realms of Sorcery is formalized
and scheduled, I'm going to start pestering folk to pull those files out of
circulation. They were originally intended only for my playtesting group, and
folks who respect the god Copyright will swiftly and honorably trash the
files and go out and buy the Official and Elegant Edition.


COLOR MAGICK AND WFRP SORCERY

Magick is wrought by drawing pure magickal energy ("raw magick" or "flux")
from Chaos through a sorceror's aethyrial organ (known variously as "Spirit,"
"Mind," or "Psyche") and shaping it through the discipline of lingua
praestantia (the "Greatest Language," or "The Speech of the Gods"). 

Raw magick is perceived by the sorceror's aethyrial organ as a mixture of
eight basic natures called "colors." These natures are perceived by the
sorceror as visual colors (i.e., red, orange, yellow); furthermore, these
colors are sensed by the sorceror as having specific associated emotions and
moods -- that is, each "color" is felt to have its own distinctive
personality.

Many sorcerors specialize in magicks associated with a single flux color.
Such specialization enhances the facility of casting spells associated with
that color; this advantage is counterweighed by the disadvantage that spells
associated with other colors are difficult to learn and cast. These are the
sorcerors of the Eight Colleges of Color.

Some sorcerors choose not to specialize, but practice castings of all colors.
They lack the facility of specialists, but have a broader range of spells
available. These sorcerors are of the Rainbow College.

All magickal flux bears both a positive and negative charge. Spells which
utilize primarily positive energies are called Enlightened. Spells which
utilize primarily negative energies are called Dark. 

The eight Color Colleges and the Rainbow College are said to practice
Enlightened Sorcery, since these colleges emphasize the practice of spells
dependent on Enlightened energies. Enlightened Sorcerors are permitted to
learn and cast spells dependent on Dark energies, but only with restraint and
close supervision by the Guilds.

Sorcerors who specialize in the practice of Dark magicks are called Dark
Wizards. Such practice is against Guild charter and State law; Dark Wizards
are outlawed in all civilized countries of the Old World.

Scholars have privately noted that spells dependent on Dark energies are
generally easier and more dangerous to learn and cast than Enlightened
spells. This is because Enlightened spells must be more carefully shaped and
controlled by Will and Intellect than Dark spells; Dark spells depend more on
Passion than Intellect, and are more effective when unfettered by the
inhibitions of Will. 

COLOR DISCIPLINES AND THE SORCEROR CHARACTER

In game terms, sorceror characters are defined as belonging to one of ten
Color Disciplines: either one of the eight Color colleges (Light, Golden,
Jade, Celestial, Grey, Amethyst, Bright, or Amber), the Rainbow College, or
Dark Wizardry.

All sorcerous spells are listed as belonging to one of the eight color
colleges. In addition, all spells are classified as either Enlightened or
Dark. 

When creating a sorceror, the player must choose one of the ten Color
Disciplines of Sorcery. This choice reflects the character's natural
tendencies, and remains the same throughout the life of the character, with
one exception: a sorceror belonging to one of the Color Colleges or the
Rainbow College may become a Dark Wizard as a result of unfavorable results
on Disability and Casting Injury Tables.

LEARNING SPELLS:
Color College wizards are specialists. Color Wizards learn spells of their
own color colleges for 50ep, and may learn any Enlightened spell at 200 ep.
They may not learn Dark spells except those taught in their own color
college. Use of Dark spells, except where sanctioned by the State and Guild,
is forbidden, and grounds for expulsion from the Guild and outlawry by the
State.

Rainbow College wizards are generalists. Rainbow Wizards learn any spell,
Enlightened or Dark, at 150 ep. Rainbow Wizards are associated with
hedgewizardry, and they tend to advance slowly, are poorly represented in the
power elites of the Guilds, and are generally regarded as socially and
intellectually inferior. Use of Dark spells, except where sanctioned by the
State and Guild, is forbidden, and grounds for expulsion from the Guild and
outlawry by the State.

Dark wizards have a special affinity for spells driven by the power of Chaos.
Dark Wizards may learn any Dark spell at 50ep, and may learn any Rainbow
spell at 200ep. Dark Wizards are forbidden membership in the Guild, are
forbidden tutelage or library use in the academies, and are outlawed by most
states in the Old World. The Guild and State accurately judge Dark Wizards to
be morally depraved; as such, Dark Wizards are normally suitable only as
villains.


CASTING SPELLS:
Spells in Your Color College are more reliable in casting.

The GM rolls 1d10 at beginning of each round to determine the current ambient
strength of the magical flux. When the flux is weak, more personal magickal
energy must be expended to cast a spell; specialists, however, cast spells
from their own color discipline normally. When the flux is strong,
specialists find cast
ing spells of their own color college especially efficient.

1d10   Strength of Magickal Flu
x During This Round
0         Flux is weak. Double MP cost except in own color college.
1-8     Flux is normal. All MP costs normal.
9         Flux is powerful. Castings in own color college are at half cost in
MP (rounded up). All other MP costs normal.


[[So. What spells are categorized as what? A fair question, and one I'll
answer... as soon as I've whipped up a list.]]

Ken

