Date: Tue, 17 Sep 96 17:36:21 +0200
From: Michael Andersen <ia9501@knold.ballehs.dk>
To: wfrp@buddha.incite.com
Subject: Too much rulez about Curses!!!
Message-ID: <9609171536.AA03857@knold.ballehs.dk>

Hi all,

Curses
------
(The wizard aprentice in my group was playing smart tricks with his newly
aquired Curse spell. He shouldnt have done that....... Rather than have him
burned  on the stake, I introduced a sinister Hedgewizard with even better
curses to do "Smart tricks" with!! *Moan* When does it end!)

These new spell is an addition to the petty magick spell Curse. Curses is now 
split up in different mastery grades. Guidelines for the basic Petty Curse 
spell follows below. The higher mastery level the caster has the more 
devasting effect the curse has.
Alternatively you can make it a rule that the wizard must know exactly how to 
afflict a specific effect of a curse and that it requires additional specific 
ingredients apart from the normal ingredients. It shouldn't cost extra EP 
when learning new ways of afflicting curses (or perhaps curses should be a 
new branch of spells - Witchcraft, I dunno!). When the curse spell is learnt, 
the caster should learn of D6+1 effects. Additionally the  same rules could 
go for the Remove Curse spell.
Curses should be considered an evil, or at least - very unkind, thing to do 
(at least it is something people get burnt for). The curse is essentially 
used by Witches, followers of Ecate, Hedgewizards, or generally evil wizards. 
The magicians of the more plotting Chaos Powers (like Tzeentch) might also 
use curses.
All the described curses may be used by a deity as the wrath of the god 
effect.
Note that a curse is instantly dispelled when the caster dies and his soul has 
left the material world (WP minutes after death, see RoSM). 
Curses should be a risky buisness, and a WP test should be passed by the 
caster in order to bestow the curse. If this test is failed by +30 or 96-00 
the caster is affected by the curse himself, and shouldn't be allowed to 
neutralize it by reversing his spell (as desribed in RoSM).

Guidelines for the Petty Curse spell and the casters mastery level.

Basic						
Growling Breath	The cursed person breathes very noisily and can't benefit from 
		any hide test.
Big Ears	The cursed persons ears grows to oversize. Only cosmetic,
Hairy		The cursed person grows thick hair all over his body.
Pink spots	The cursed person developes pink spots on his bode.
Fleas		-
Big nose	The cursed persons nose grows to oversize. Only cosmetic,
Big feet	The cursed persons feet grows to oversize. Only cosmetic,
Big teeth	The cursed persons teeth, especially front teeth, grows to 
		oversize. He can't hardly close his mouth and has difficult 
		speaking. Apply penalties to fel tests as appropriate.
Stutter		The cursed person becomes subject to stuttering and gets a 
		-10 modifier to communication tests.
Warts		The cursed persons face is covered with warts
Boils, piles	-
Body odor	The cursed persons body emits a nasty odor, making it 
		impossible to communicate with common folk and above.
Baldness	The cursed person becomes subject to baldness.
Severe Rash	-
Flatulence	The cursed person find himself unable to loss weight. 
		Modifiers for overweight are ?? (where's my copy of the 
		character generation rules from the character pack!!! Hey 
		James, are you going to publish that one? It was really a 
		good extension which cleared up some of the character 
		generation holes in WFRP)

Level 1						
Nausea		The cursed person becomes  subject to a constant nausea. 
		He receives a -10 to -20 (according to situation)  to all 
		tests where the nausea will have effect.
Clumsy fingers	The cursed person find himself nearly unable to grab things 
		and must make tests each time he is trying to hold on to 
		anything.

Level 2:						
Magnetism	The cursed person acts as a powerful magnet, and any metal 
		within 12 yards is drawn to him unless restrained. GM should 
		add penalties (or even bonuses) as appropriate. Bear in mind 
		the danger in walking into a kitchen with a whole rack of 
		kitchen knives!!!
Midas of rust	Every piece of metal the cursed person touches is instantly 
		turned into a totally rusted piece of metal.
Unlucky		The cursed person becomes very unlucky. This acts as a reverse 
		luck skill. The person has D6 unlucky points a day. Each time 
		the person make a test, the GM may add penalties by using his 
		unlucky points. This usually happens when the character tries 
		something real important. Essentially this curse will just 
		neutralize the luck skill if the character has that skill.

Major Curses
Discipline level: 3rd ritual
Preparation: 1d6+3 rounds
Magick Points: 8
Range: 12 Yards
Area of effect: One target
Duration: Until dispelled
Resistance: WP
Ingredients/reagents: Blood from the victim
Major curses are more powerful versions of the petty curses. They can be 
learned  when a caster has reaches the 3rd level of a appropriate spellcasting 
career (Wizard, Which, Necromancer, Demonologist. Hedgewizards may also learn 
them). Major Curses cannot be neutralized with the Remove Curse spell, but a 
person knowing the same sort of curse will be able to dispel it (as described 
in RoSM). Also there exist a powerful version of the remove curse spell for 
removing major and petty curses as well.

Blindness	The cursed person is struck blind.
Disease		The cursed person is affected by a disease which must be a 
		disease with no or minor chance of death.
Silence		The cursed person find himself unable to speak.
Forgotten Identity  The cursed person forgets all that has happened within 
		the last two years.
Animal Transmutation  The cursed person is transformed into a animal, like a 
		toad or raven. He will still retain his intellect but suffers 
		from the restrictions of the animal form (e.g. can't speak, 
		carry items and so on)
Curse of no Enter  The cursed person find himself unable to enter a specific 
		place (town, or area of same size!)
Strike Insanity	The afflicted person is struck by madness and gain a random 
		insanity (or chosen by GM)
Item curse	An item is cursed. If its a weapon, the cursed item will get 
		a penalty of -2 to damage, and -20 to hit (even magickal 
		weapons). Other items receives modifiers as the GM sees fit.

The extremity (I couldn't help myself, sorry!)
Divine Curses
Discipline level: 4th ritual (Special)
Preparation: at least 3 days
Magic points: 45
Range: ?????
Area of effect: all subject within 4800 Yards
Duration: Until dispelled
Resistance: Varies usually none.
Ingredients/reagents: Varies (but numerous)
Divine curses are curses which do not afflict just one person, rather it 
afflicts a whole area of 4800 square yards (sometimes even more). As the name 
suggest these curses may normally only be used by divine patrons, but mortals 
may be able to use them. Any mortal who has obtained 4th level in the wizard, 
Necromancer, or Daemonologist career and at least two levels in any other 
magick career may be able to comprehend the difficult ways to invoke these 
curses. The ingredients required will be numerous and the ritual to invoke 
the curse will take several days (perhaps involving the assistance of a 
greater daemon at GM's discretion). Each effect of the Divine curses must be 
learnt individually and paid for with EP. When using a Divine Curse the caster 
must be sure to have the protection of his god (usually an evil one), 
otherwise it may mean that other gods (good or law) may revenge the cursed 
creatures and punish the caster. 

Town of no entrance	From this day on, no-one will be able to enter the 
			cursed town.
Town of no escape	From this day on, no-one will be able to escape from 
			the cursed town.
Cursed Rain		For one day the area is subject to heavy rain and 
			thunder from dark black clouds. At the following days, 
			everyone who was touched by the rain receives a random 
			or specific petty curse.
Area of war hunger	All non related groups in the area, becomes subject to 
			hatred against each other.
Area of Males		From this day on only  males are born in the area. 
Area of Females		From this day on only  females are born in the area.
Famine			The area becomes subject to famine.
Plague			The area becomes infected with a specific disease. At 
			the day after the curse has been afflicted, about 1/10 
			of all in the area becomes sick with the disease.
Eternal sleep of the ages  Every species in the area, must pass a WP test or 
			fall into eternal sleep.
