From apile10@alsvid.scu.edu.auWed Aug 16 18:02:18 1995
Date: Tue, 15 Aug 1995 13:45:53 +1000 (EST)
From: Aaron John Pile <apile10@alsvid.scu.edu.au>
Reply to: The wfrp mailing list <wfrp@gojira.monsta.com>
To: wfrp <wfrp@gojira.monsta.com>
Subject: WFRP: Djinni

_Djinni_

Arabic Magicians are the most arrogant and sadistic in the world. 
This is not without reason as the civilization in Araby is one of the 
oldest (human) in the world and has cultivated the most incredibly 
powerful wizards in human history. They studied magic for the 
power it could give them and proceeded to perform any ritual 
which could provide it. As confidence breeds contempt, over the 
centuries wizards delved into the arts without moral thought. 
Studying magic and probing deamonic powers just because they 
could. Those that did not have the ability did not survive and those 
that did steadily became more powerful.

At the height of their power they controlled incredible power and 
held pacts with the most powerful sources. Such was their 
contempt that they had no qualms summoning and enforcing there 
will on many of the greater deamons. Those who obeyed were 
used and dismissed to hold their grudges in the void. Those that
fought and won kept the number of  powerful wizards willing to try
similar feats to a minimum. Some wizards died in terrible pain, some 
were transformed and taken back to the realms of chaos to suffer 
and serve their new masters. Those who fought and were overcome 
were imprisoned in nearby handy objects.

	- 'The titanic struggle was almost at an end. A being of blinding 
	brilliance was facing an old wizard. They were both drained as a 
	result of the battle of wills that was almost complete. The being 
	had quickly escaped the pentagram and tried to overcome his 
	summoner. The battle had raged long and hard, the laboratory 
	was in ruins. The old man collapsed barely conscious as the being 
	staggered over towards him. He knew he could not force this one 
	to do what he had wanted. It was lucky that he had prepared for 
	this. As the darkness began fogging his mind he uttered the word 
	triggering his earlier prepared spell. The last thing he saw as he 
	lost consciousness was the being yelling in distress as it was 
	sucked into the crystal atop the magicians staff, there to fulfill 
	three wishes to any man who held it until his release. Perhaps the 
	claw that held the crystal on held the Djinni just as well.'

It was soon common practice for the most powerful wizards to keep 
common objects such as lamps and bottles nearby for just this purpose. 
Mighty magics were then cast on these objects to punish those imprisoned 
inside for their insolent opposition. Some are tied to their prison for 
eternity, others until they complete an assigned task or are willingly 
released by their current master. These Unfortunate beings became known 
as Djinni or Effretti (Also as Genies to those outside of Araby).


-Djinni Tasks_

Punishments varied according to the power and personality of the 
entrapped and the capabilities of the trapped, and were most often 
in the form of satisfying their masters desires. Djinni could be forced 
to carry out the desires of others, but due to the composition of the 
binding spells any one person could only force a trapped Djinni to do 
his bidding three times (unless the task was included in the binding 
spell), after which the Djinnis will was strong enough to overcome 
further demands. Djinni, being devious individuals, often stated to 
new masters that they were granted 3 wishes. This way it appeared 
that they fulfilled the wishes of there own free will, when in fact they 
were compelled to do so.

Examples of tasks:

Three Wishes Perpetual - Djinni are forced to grant three wishes to 
any master possessing the item he is bound to. After completing 
their third task the djinni object will activate the next portion of the 
binding spell. The object may do nothing, in which case the master 
is left with a useless object which would eventually cast aside. The 
next owner may by mistake rub the object and be granted his wishes. 
The object may be returned to a designated resting place (Such as the 
laboratory it was made or a tomb or necropolis).  The only hope of 
release a djinni had was to lead his master to wish for their freedom.

Three Wishes Once - The Djinni are forced to grant three wishes and 
upon completion of their task are released and banished once again to 
the void.

Task perpetual - Every time the Djinni is summoned he must complete 
a set task (Built into the binding spell) and then return to his object. 
These tasks were most often the petty whims of their masters but some 
are dangerous to others. It was also a common practice for moderately 
powerful magicians to bind a djinni to protect their tomb. Robbers 
would enter the site to steal magical items and find a Djinni bottle. 
Hoping to achieve three wishes they would rub the object only to be 
agonizingly killed by its inhabitant. (Djinni return to their object rather 
than the void if killed during such a task). The only hope such a Djinni 
has of release is a magician (of the power of his binder) prepared to 
remove the  binding spells and release him.

	- 'The dust subsided and the adventurers studied their 
	handiwork. The rooms entrance was sealed and they were 
	safe from the terrors that followed. Quickly they examined 
	the artifacts before them that the wizard had commanded them 
	to bring. A Staff with a crystal held in a claw, a sword with a 
	mighty rune and a large beautifully crafted bottle. With all their 
	hopes of escape placed on the bottle they carefully removed its 
	cloth covering and gently rubbed it. A wisp of  smoke escaped 
	and a voice sounded from nowhere 'Your will shall be done'. 
	Almost instantly a pair of red bedslippers appeared at the 
	wizards feet. Stunned beyond belief, the group could do nothing 
	but stare at the rubble blocking the doorway and the noise of 
	many feet coming from beyond.'



_Djinni Attitudes


Djinni attitudes are as diverse as the tasks they perform. It depends 
on the time they have been imprisoned and their attitude before 
imprisonment. They are all strong willed, for else they would have 
served the magicians instead of futilely resisting. It is important to 
remember that the magicians called upon both the forces of chaos 
and law and powers great and small to achieve their tasks. Some 
Djinni are consumed with the need for revenge. They do all they 
can too twist the wishes of their masters to do them harm. Others 
are grateful to be free of their bottles and will willingly grant more 
than three wishes. Some will bargain for their freedom and others 
will agree to anything to escape their prisons.

	- 'I wish to have an apple with a golden appearance. A 
	beautiful yellow apple appeared in his hands and he took 
	a large bite. The apple was rotten to the core. He now 
	knew the Djinni's attitude and cast the enchanted object 
	into the sea. He knew that one day it might was ashore, but 
	it would not be for a long, long time.'


_Djinni Objects_

The objects that have Djinni bound into them are usually common 
place objects such as oil lamps, bottles or rings. It is not, however, 
unknown for them to be bound into mirrors or crystal balls. Even 
though the objects themselves are ordinary, the binding process 
and the power of their occupants renders them indestructible. 
Those who can recognize items of power will know it immediately 
(if they have knowledge of such) as a Djinni object. 

The objects cannot be destroyed even by arcane means unless the 
Djinni is first released. Even an item with a greater rune of smashing 
will not scratch it. All items will however have one weakness and it 
has been the object of more than one quest to find how to destroy it. 
These weakness may be difficult to achieve because of their danger 
or just their obscurity. For example A particular mirror may be 
destroyed by reflecting the image of a medusa, another by coating 
it in bees wax.


_Djinni Bargains_

Many Djinni weary of their current existence will try to convince 
their masters to give them a better life. They may view it as better 
to undergo the gruesome spells and be bound to empower a magic 
carpet than spend the rest of their existence being reduced to fetching 
their masters bedslippers. Besides the carpet may one day be burned 
and they would have their freedom.

- 'Djinni, you are willing to empower a magic carpet? Why not, I can 
easily fetch my slippers but with a magic carpet I could follow the 
witches on their brooms! I'll begin the rituals immediately.'





Comments?

>"I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness..."
>davisri1@pilot.msu.edu

"No one knows my plan!"


P.S Loved the Magic Carpet Article.



-- 
.' '.                    Internet: apile10@scu.edu.au
Southern Cross University
Lismore NSW Australia
