From: Gregory Jay Scott <scott3@america.net>
Subject: A rule/table preposal and two spells

Fire storm

Spell level: 2? 3?
Magic Points: 1 per 4 micro-fireball 
Range: 48 yards
Duration: Instanteous
Ingredients: A ball of sulpher?

This generates a number of small intensely hot fireballs equal to (twice? 
four times?) the casters level. These move at eight times the speed of any
other magic missle spell. ( I am saying that magic missles have speed
about half of that of a arrow, since they can be dodged to halve the
damage and arrows can not be). They do one hit at strenght zero and do 1d2
damage plus 1d3 to flamible targets and hit automatically when targeted at
any creature or anything the caster can see clearly(he need not focus his
attention on the target at all). A d6 is rolled seperately to check for
extra damage (no BS check is EVER needed). The last sentence may be
redundant with the rules I am bnot taking the time to check. Extra dice
rolled will be d6's. The spell must target individual targets. The caster
is specifically allowed to target arrows and other projectiles. The fire
tries to wrap around its target so arrow shafts and vains will be
incinerated leaving the heads to waste kinetic energy as they spin off
course. Larger projectiles can be destroyed but very large ones will
require multible hits. If their is a clean shot to the targets the caster
need no see them. The number of magic points to be used must be specified
each round in this mode however and the shots have a BS of 75. The spell
will automatically evenly distribute the missles as evenly as possible
among the targets that meet its parameters, remaining missles are assigned
randomly to targets diffent targets. The parameters are limited to the
general appearance(s) of the target(s) and wether or not it is in the
air.Example: if the party takes a goblin prisoner and then are attacked by
more goblins. The spell caster in a fit of panic casts the spell in the
second mode specifing goblins on the ground and arrows in the air ( the
most specific he can be). He uses 5 magic points. The elf of the party
fires an arrow this round the goblins fire 3 and there are 4 attacking
goblins. There are 9 targets (1 captive goblin + 1 elfs arrow + 3 goblin
arrows + 4 attacking goblins = 9). Each target will get at least 2 fire
balls and the 2 remaining are assign to two DIFFERENT targets (targets
come only from the pool of original targets) randomly. 


Counter-ball

Spell level: 3?
Magic Points: 2 per Counter-ball
Range: 48 yards
Durantion: Instant
Ingredients: Any peice of armor or one pound of ice

This targets the same way as the above spell. Level 3 casters can do 2 
per round, level 4 can do 4. They do no damage to physical objects but 
destroy any magic missle they hit. 
