GUTSNATCHER - A sword with a will of its own.
	by Mikael Gustafsson, mike@CSD.UU.SE (c) 970205

  The intension I had with this (IMHO) interesting magical weapon was
to let one of my always-greedy-no-matter-what-character players get
his hands on it. It is indeed a very dangerous weapon and should be
used with care, as with all magic items.


BACKGROUND:
  In a distant past it belonged to a man know as Victor Salchas. He
was a man of great fighting skill and he dedicated his life in the
battle against evil. One day he saved the life of a mighty wizard who
in return gave him a magical broadsword. And it's name was
Gutsnatcher. He was told that it would serve him and only him for as
long as he lived. If it would be passed to someone else he/she would
have to prove him/herself to Gutsnatcher before it would serve another
master.

  Victor were such a good fighter and had such a great charm that the
sword itself were influenced by him. If the concept of feeling
admiration and proudness could be applied to swords, that would be it.

  When Victor died, Gutsnatcher became devastated and haven't gotten
over him yet.


MAGICAL ABILITIES:
(The sword does not need any WP-test to be wielded.)  

* WS +15
* When put on the ground it always points north.
* Always floats in water.
* Whenever the wielder draws blood with it, the sword steals WP from 
  the foe attacked. It is *not* for the wielder though, it's for
  "Gutsnatcher" itself. On a hit, there is a (100-WP)% chance that it
  will gain WP. The gain is D10 points each time and this is deduced
  from the attacked foe.

* Each time the sword is drawn from its sheat, a WP test is made for
  the sword. If the test fails, nothing happens. If not, Gutsnatcher
  attacks the wielder. This means that it is Gutsnatcher's will to kill
  unworthy mortals.

  The WP gains is not permanent. At sunrise each day, it decreases by
  5.


FIGHTING THE GUTSNATCHER:
(I.e. when Gutsnatcher turns against its wielder.)

 Alt 1. 
 At the end of each round, the snatcher's WP decreases by 10. This
 means that it can only fight for a maximum of WP/10 rounds (dep. on
 the current WP level). After this time it simply drops to the ground.

 Alt 2. 
 All damage made to it reduces its WP in the same way as wounds would. 


Profile:
	M WS BS S T W I  A Dx Ld It Cl WP Fl 
	7 60  - 4 - - 60 4 -  -  50 -  $$ -

 $$ The WP is initially (when found) set to D100-50. Minimum 0.

The Gutsnatcher can not be killed. When reduced to 0 WP it drops to
the ground. 


COMMENTS:

  Bear in mind that when Gutsnatcher turns against a wielder he/she
might not have another weapon to defend him/herself with. A shield
could be their only choice.

  If a character is fleeing from Gutsnatcher ordinary fleeing rules
apply. Swift as it is, Gutsnatcher will chase/fly after the character.

  To make Gutsnatcher a bit less dangerous, make a WP test at the
beginning of each round. If it fails, it drops to the ground.

  When I had it in my campaign, I went for the Alt 1 rule. It is
simpler but gives the average character a decent chance.

  Any experiences would be appreciated. Send these to mike@csd.uu.se
