From: Manfred Lilge <lilge@berlin.snafu.de>
Subject: Cleric of Ranald

Hi, List!

One of my players is an Initiate of Ranald and is going to become Cleric
I. After studying the description of Ranald he found a few gaps in the
rules.There is written, that "Clerics of Ranald may use the following Petty
Magic Spells:"..."Zone of Invisibility"...

Now the problems:
a) When shall the character learn the PettyMagic-Skill?. This is neither
possible as Initiate nor as Cleric!
b) There is no spell description for "Zone Of Invisibility"!

I propose the following solution:
a) Although Clerics get their magical powers granted by their deity, it
seems to me absolut neccessary to learn the appropriated skills since
they need a certain mental attitude to use the magic. Therefore I tend
to give Initiates access to the PettyMagic-Skill, similar to the
Wizards' Apprentice. But this decision rises further problems: Should
the Initiate also get MPs? And is he allowed to get spells?=20
Why does a character get MPs when he changes his career to Wizards'
Apprentice but does not when he becomes Initiate? In my point of view
every inhabitant of the Old World owns an individual magical potential
expressed in an unknown amount of MPs, but most of them are not aware of
it. By studying the magical powers by learning Casting-Skills they
realize this potential and get more and more access to it. Therefore the
power level and the amount of MPs does not depend from the current =
career but from the level of the learned Casting-Skill!

E.g. a player who's charater has become Cleric II, but has not learned
"Cast Spells - Clerical II"  does neither increase his power level nor
the amount of his MPs.

If this is true, I would grant 1D8 MPs to Initiates after having learned
"Cast Spells - Petty Magic". And what about the number of spells, which
have to be learned ( or granted ) at least to complete the career as
Initiate? I think one PettyMagic-Spell is enough since they have limited
access to this kind of magic and do not have the full choice.

b) Since the spell-description is missing I propose the following one,
adapted from "Zone of Silence":

ZONE OF INVISIBILITY
Spell Level:	P
Magic Points: 	1
Range:		Personal
Duration:	1 hour
Ingredients:	A piece of coal

This spell creates a 12 yard diameter Zone centered on the caster. The 
Zone last for an hour, until it is destroyed, or until the caster moves. 

All friendly characters inside the Zone and all equipment worn at the 
body become invisible.
A character maintaining a Zone, may not cast any or use meditation skill 
to recover magic points. Two or more Zones may not overlap. If they do 
so, the both Zones are instantly destroyed.
