From: Chris Clements <chris@atmnet.net>
Subject: [WFRP:1319] "Luridus"

'Luridus, Blade of Endings'

--
"Let us hope there are no more wraiths... I doubt we would survive one
more meeting with their dark kind.  Here, Erik, what have you got there"?

"A dark blade, master wizard. Come and examine it, for even one untrained
in the arcane such as I can feel the... the power flowing through it.  And
it would seem it has runes...".

"Runes?  Are you sure?  Here, bring it in to better light.  Ah, what an
interesting prize we have found.  I have never seen a blade such as thi..
Look!  LOOK!  The hand of a god has touched this weapon!  See the center
rune... here?  'Tis a rune of death...".

"I have heard tales of such weapons... is not the rune specified to slay
the creature named at the creation of it"?

"Yes Erik, you are correct.  However, this center rune names no one race...
yet it is one of the runes of death!  This weapon will destroy the
mightiest daemon, or the largest giant, or... any of those who shed blood
upon its blade.  Do you not understand?  This one rune embodies the most
potent and primal forces of destruction... legends of old whisper the name
of it to me... 'the unbinder', 'unraveller', 'ender', 'twilight' and 'Morr's
rune'... some say the last calling is false.  Some instead say 'Khaine's
rune'".

"Khaine?  This weapon is of Khaine"?

"Erik, wait, you understand not... wa.. my hand.  The blade has cut my hand!
No... no..."

"Sigmar help us, I'm sorry Malegor! I... I... why is everything growing
so dark?  Sigm...".

--

Description:

Luridus (pronounced 'Lur-e-duce') is a sword with a shining silver mithril
hilt and ebony blade.  The blade itself has many engraved intertwined runes,
yet all these smaller symbols of power lead to the center of the blade, to
a large and highly intricate master rune.  A greater death rune...

The smaller intricate runes name every living creature in existence, as
well as the immortal powers that be (only undead are not so marked upon
the sword).  When activated, the runes glow with a dim red light.

History:

Very few know of the existence of such a blade, and fewer still know its
true story.  Some of those who have heard of the blade claim that the
dark lord of assassins, Khaine, created it to slay in his vile name. Others
who have studied this weapon vehemently deny Khaine had anything to do
with its creation, saying instead that it was made by the hands
of Shallya, whose purpose in making it was to teach the futility of battle.
Yet, there are a few who say that this sword had even darker smiths than
Khaine...

Such tales are false, fanciful theories only.  The weapon was created by
skilled dwarven hands, but its maker is lost to the shadows of the past
(the few dwarves who know of this sword claim its forger was none other than
Rukh, their god of smithing).  It was Morr, however, who inscribed the names
of all mortal creatures onto the dark metal and linked them to the master
rune of death.  Morr also enchanted it with other properties not so easily
discernable.  Why the god of death and dreams enspelled the sword so, none
but the higher powers can say honestly(even the mighty daemon-lords refuse
to speak of the blade; naming it to them causes them pain).

Luridus was then sent beyond the sea of souls, cast into the living lands
by Morr's hand.  Many a tale of woe and bravery involve it before Sigmar's
birthing, yet never is the sword of power mentioned by its true name.


Powers:

- It is an enchanted sword (obviously), and can wound (and then slay) any
  creatures harmed only by magical weapons (* - except undead; see below).

- If a mortal creature receives as much as a single wound from Luridus,
  then it dies (GMs: you may or may not allow the use of fate points for
  a pc injured by the weapon).  The one who spills blood with the sword
  also perishes (no fate points may be spent to save the character).  Luridus
  will also slay immortal creatures as well, be they daemons or elementals,
  save those who have already died the false death (i.e. undead).

- If the bearer is slain by a mortal creature (whether Luridus is drawn or
  not) the attacker dies.  Luridus need only be on the person, it is not
  required for it to be unsheathed.

- The bearer may choose to wound himself with the blade.  In this case, the
  mortal will transform into an undead creature (vampire, wraith, ghost, or
  possibly a lich).  One such transformed will never know death a second
  time, for it is impossible to truly destroy one who has been changed in
  such a matter (although it is possible to banish them for a time).

- Luridus can not be handled by undead, it simply is intagible to them.
  The sword also passes through such creatures without damaging them
  in the slightest if used in an attack.

- If the bearer sleeps close to Luridus (within arms reach) he or she
  will sometimes dream of places or people long ago.  At other times
  the dreams will show the bearer the present, but the sword will always
  be in the hand of its current owner in the dreamlands.  All the senses
  through the dream are muted and darkness always lies just beyond the
  dreamer's posistion.  Should the sword be dropped in the dream, it
  vanishes from the waking world as well (it is cast upon the sea of
  souls to reappear in the living world were and when Morr wills it).
  This ability (dreaming) is very difficult to control with any accuracy
  (1/4 WP test each turn).

- Luridus draws ravens to its owner's location like flies are drawn to
  rotting meat.  At first, one will arrive, then a few more.  Within
  a days time (provided the bearer doesn't move from his/her present
  location) a flock of hundreds will gather.  They never pester the
  sword-wielder or his/her companions, but they are a constant presence
  that can prove to be somewhat unnerving.

- The rune-sword wears heavily upon its master.  For a mortal, it is
  a heavy burden that grows with time.  In game turns, the sword
  subtracts d4 willpower points a day.  These points will only return
  when Luridus is more than ten miles away.  If the bearer is ever
  reduced to 0 willpower, then the sword is lost to the sea of souls
  and the bearer begins to 'heal'.

--

Chris Clements
chris@atmnet.com

"Vale, mi amice."

