Axe of Thor-Uddin
--------------------------
Thor-Uddin lived in a time long past.  Thor-Uddin was a Slayer.  He was one
of the greatest warriors in the land, and is rumored to have been the first
to enter the gates of Karak-Varn in the attempts to retake the fortress from
the goblins and orcs who held the upper levels.  He is rumored to have 
entered them alone.  And came back.  His shame was too great to allow
him to die at the hands of lowly goblins.  Trolls too, proved to lowly to 
avenge
his lost honor.  Yet, in one of those mighty battles Thor-Uddin came upon 
one of the Father Trolls.  Those that existed before the time of Chaos.  
Before
the trolls had been warped to their current pathetic state.  This Father Troll
took pitty on Thor-Uddin and worked magick on him.  Thor-Uddin forgot about
the location of the caves where the Father Troll and his peaceful colony 
lived, but suddenly knew of many strongholds of the warped Chaos Trolls.
And most importantly he had a new axe that the Father Troll had molded 
from stone and presented to him.  With his new axe he wandered into the 
area of the Old World now known as the Wasteland, and was never heard
from again.  However, the troll raids that had been so numerous in the years
before all but ended, and it is said that now, in that area numerous smallish
creatures that resemble 2-3 foot tall trolls now reside up there trading small
bits of ore and other metal bits for precious stones or 'shineys'.  Strange 
things have been happening there, and numerous adventurers who have left
saying they were headed to that area have returned a week or two later
knowing nothing of where they have been, and claiming to have never been
there at all.
	-- 500 mile power beacon that can be activated by anyone linked to 
the axe, and can be sensed by anyone with the sense magic skill, or the 
person linked to it, if he doesn't.  It can be turned on or off at will by the 

axes owner.
	-- All non-magickal attacks or weapons automatically cause one 
less point of damage as long as the owner is in contact with his axe.
	-- Mighty Smiting. (+2 damage)
	-- Superior Skill. (+10% WS)
	-- Slayer rune vs. trolls.  Any wounding blow against a troll will
automatically cause a +3-+6 (d4+2) critical hit to be rolled on the Sudden
Death Critical chart.
	-- Illumination as lantern for 2d6+6 rounds 3 times a day.
	-- Heroic Inspiration. (Cause Frenzy self) 2d6+6 rounds or untill all
enemies are dead.

