           
           
           MINOR MAGICKAL ARTIFACTS - More Might Than Muscle

                original article by Patrick Leclercq

              translated by yours truely Frank Lubbers


 The majority of the magickal items found during campaigns and adventures, 
 like rings containing Fireballs, are quite powerfull. Most of the time they
 grant a unequal advantage to the PCs over the encountered monsters, which 
 can be quite unbalancing in a campaign. To compensate this it's possible
 to give (?? Hmmm, I never GIVE anything to 'em. Certainly nothing magickal!)
 the PCs less powerfull toys to play with. If fact, the minor magickal 
 artifacts can sometimes cause large effects when used with great precare.
 Here are some examples to boost your imagination.
 N-joy!


 * Ring of Sound

   The rings contain the adapted PM spell "Sounds", which gives it the 
   ability to make a certain sound withing 24y of the wearer. To use this
   the ring must be pointed to the direction from which the sound should be
   heard. An activation phrase may be inscribed into the ring, in Arcane
   language offcourse. When activated the sound fills the air for 1 round, 
   always with the appropriate loudness. The ring can be used D2 times a day.
   To determine the sort of ring, use a D100 or make up one yourself. (and 
   share it with us!)

   01-05 : Silly voice at GM's choice
   06-10 : Cry of pain or agony
   11-15 : Cry of joy
   16-20 : Shout of terror
   21-25 : Silly laughter
   26-30 : Daemonical laughter (Hmmm, what would that sound like?)
   31-35 : Laughter or weeping of a child
   36-40 : Sarcastic laughter
   41-45 : Sound of breaking glass
   46-50 : Soft sound of music
   51-55 : Sniffing (as if having a cold)
   56-60 : Sound of opening gate/door
   61-65 : Sound a hammer on an anvil
   66-70 : Barking of a SMALL dog
   71-75 : Barking of a LARGE dog
   76-80 : Howling of a dog
   81-85 : Caughing (did he smoke 40 sigarettes a day? :))
   86-90 : Trampling of passing horses
   91-92 : Wailing of a lost soul
   93-94 : Sighing
   95-96 : Wardrums of an Orc Warband
   97    : Cries of and an Orc Warband
   98    : Sound of an Earthquake
   99    : Sound of Thunder
   100   : Sound of an Explosion


 * Ring of Light

   This ring has the ability as if the wearer had just cast the PM spell 
   "Light". Those rings are normally made out of a dark metal, in which a small
   gem is crafted. The word of activation is inscribed inside the ring, in
   Arcane Magick most of the time. When the word is spoken the ring brightens
   and provides the light equal to that of a lantern, for a period of 1 hour.
   During this period the light cannot be dimmed. The ability can only be used
   once a day. 


 * Necklace Of Protection from Rain

   The necklace consists of a small golden chain and a drop shaped gem, which
   give the bearer protection from rain when held in both hands. The duration
   of this is 1 hour per day.


 * The Skeleton-Key
  
   This little key can open any door, provided that there's a mechanism which
   can lock the door. When the key is inserted in the lock, and turned over
   the lock remains open for 1 minute, afterwhich it closes again. The key
   only works 1 time a day, and only on non-magickal locks. Just like with the
   PM spell "Open".


 * Key of Closing

   This item is based on the "Magickal Lock" PM spell. When a door is locked
   with this key, it is magickally locked and can't be opened by non-magickal
   means. The ability can only be used once per week. The same key can be used 
   to open the lock again, a Skeleton-Key won't do.


 * Box of Conservation

   The boxes are normally made out of some kind of wood, enchanted with strange
   spells and vary a lot in appearance and size. Any material inside the box
   can be conservated for a very long time. eg. flesh and vegetables.
   When a living organism is placed inside the box it will die rapidly. It is 
   said that the box was invented by a wicked sorceror who wanted to preserve
   the tissue of animals, organs etc.


 * Flask of Conservation

   This flask keeps the liquid inside at the temperature which it had when 
   poured into the bottle, hot or cold. It was firstly constructed by a 
   magician who was fond of wine and wanted to drink it at the right 
   temperature, even if he was on a long voyage. A smaller version, a canteen,
   is also known to exist.


 * Elven Statue (Small Version)

   This little statue has the ability to produce a soft sound when the head is
   rubbed. Elves use it to get their offspring to sleep. Whenever started the
   song chants for an hour and can't be stopped. Orc's and Gobbo's have a
   natural detest against this kind of music, which they can hear over very 
   long distances. Legends tell that childeren who listen to the chant every day
   develop an exceptional feeling for music. Collecters pay a fortune for the
   rare specimen.


 * Eternal Shilling

   The wonderfull piece of enchantmented coinage always returns to the pouce
   of its owner. When the owner dies, the coin automatically accepts a new
   owner, the first person to touch the coin again. Eternal Crowns and gems
   with this enchantment are also known to exist. For some dark reason the
   enchantments can't seem to be succesfully cast on magickal items.


 * Gravity Ring

   This ring is crafted with great skill, and enables the caster to make an
   other individual tumble over. The other person must be within 24y of the
   bearer of the ring, who pronounces the word "Tumble" to activate the ring.
   The person to tumble over may make a dexterity test. 
   These rings are very rare and most wanted by warriors to give them some
   advantage in battle. Don't let them be used more than once a day.

