THE SCOPE OF MAGIC

New Spells for Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay
(taken from White Wolf 17)

Designed by  Ken Cliffe.
Typed in by Ben Fabian (fabian@inf.fu-berlin.de).
[Notes in brackets ].

PM:

SENSE OF PRESENCE

Spell Level: P
Magic Points: 1
Range: Personal
Duration: D6 minutes
Ingredients: A body part of the creature to be detected

On casting this spell, one type of creature, fantastic or not, must be 
specified for detection. As long as the spell is maintained, the caster
will be alerted to the presence of any number of the designated creature
within a 48 yards radius. Each time the same or a different type of 
creature is to be detected, a new casting of the spell is required.
The old casting must be dispelled or allowed to wear out. 
Only one type of creature can be sensed for at a time.

BM1:

GUIDE MISSILE

Spell Level: 1
Magic Points: 2
Range: 24 yards
Duration: Instantaneous
Ingredients: A lock of elven hair

This spell may be cast upon any single creature within a 24 yard radius.
The subject«s next missile attack will automatically hit its target and
will do double damage. The subject may also specify the exact target of 
his shot (an orc«s head or a rope to a drawbridge, for example).
If the subject of the spell does not make a missile attack within one turn 
of the casting, the spell«s effects dissipate.

[Should be restricted to non-magical arrows and bows, or MP cost be 
increased to 4 .]

BM 2:

INVIGORATE

Spell Level: 2
Magic Points: 4
Range: Touch
Duration:  1D10 turns
Ingredients: The tooth of an ogre

Thies spell allows the caster to invigorate a creature«s will.
The creature touched is healed of 1D3 Wounds. His Toughness is raised one
point for the duration of the spell. Will Power and Cool are each raised by
10 Points for the same amount of time.

BM 3:

CURSE WEAPON

Spell Level: 3
Magic Points: 6
Range: 12 yards
Duration: 3D6 rounds
Ingredients: A hand-to-hand weapon

This spell allows the caster to curse another character«s weapon.
Only melee weapons can be affected, not missile weapons or magical
weapons. A cursed weapon causes its wielder to attack with a -20 WS
modifier and a -2 modifier to all damage done. The weapon cannot be
released for the duration of the spell, unless the wielder can make a
successful WP test.
A weapon can also be cursed before its owner draws it - when it«s still 
sheathed. The owner will suffer from the curse when the weapon is drawn,
but its effects will only last for those rounds remaining since the spell«s
casting. Magical Sense skill will not warn a character that his sheathed
weapon has been cursed, since he would have to touch it to find it out.

BM 4:

STEAL SPELL

Spell Level: 4
Magic Point: 15
Range: 24 yards
Duration: Instantaneous
Ingredients: A magnet

By  means of this spell, the caster may steal the next spell to be cast by
another spellcaster, only one spellcaster can be targeted as a victim of this
spell at a time. If the intended victim does not cast another spell within 6
rounds, Steal Spell is negated, but Magic Points are still spent.
An intended victim of this spell will not know that his next spell is going
to  be stolen. He must make a successful WP test or his next spell will simply
sputter out and become the possession of the caster of Steal Spell.
A victim«s WP test is modified according to his level. For the modifiers
see the following chart (it is assumed that the caster of Steal Spell is 
level four):

Victim«s Level			WP Modifier
	1					-10
	2					    0
	3					+10
	4					+20

If the test succeeds, no spell is stolen, but the caster of Steal Spell must still
expend the designated number of Magic Points. 
If the test fails, the caster of Steal Spell takes his victim«s next spell.
That victim must still expend the normal number of Magic Points for his 
own spell, even though it was stolen. The recipient may cast the stolen spell 
himself, at the level of his victim, without expending any more Magic Points.
If the stolen spell is not cast within one round, it is lost. Should the caster of 
Steal Spell exceed the 24 yard range before the intended victim casts his spell,
the second spell just fizzles out and is lost to both parties.
Note that all types of spells can be stolen and cast. Stolen spells do not
become a part of the thief«s permanent spell repertoire. Furthermore, 
spellcasters of Good alignment might abstain from casting stolen 
Necromantic or Demonologist spells for moral reasons.
Some spells have durations which the original caster may control. 
For example, such spells might be listed as "Duration: 1+ hours". A stolen
spell with a duration like this can be recast by a "spell thief", but cannot be 
maintained any longer than the shortest specified time (one hour in the
above example).

DE 1:

PENDEMON

Spell Level: 1
Magic Points: 2
Range: Touch
Duration: 1 turn
Ingredients: A wizard«s staff and a body part of a demon

This  spell transforms the head of the caster«s staff into the head of  a
snarling, gnashing demon. When the staff is swung as a hand-to-hand
weapon, the demon head will bite into a victim upon a successful hit.
No special skill is required to properly use the staff when this spell is in
effect. A hit does 1D6+3 Wounds, plus the Strength of the wielder.
Victims of a bite must also make a test against Toughness x 10 or fall
unconscious for 1D6 rounds. Six rounds (1 Turn) after the spell«s casting,
the spellbinder«s staff will return to normal.

DE 2:

DEMON HOUNDS

Spell Level: 2
Magic Points: 5 per hour
Range: Near
Duration: 1+ hours
Ingredients: The pelt of a wolf

This spell allows a Demonologist to summon and control dogs and wolves.
Depending on the environment, 1D10+2 dogs or wolves will be summoned.
If the spell is cast underground or in some other unlikely location, the GM
may decide wether any hounds arrive at all. The caster can control the actions
of summoned beasts within a 48 yards radius. His or her control over an 
animal overrides any other. A Demonologist also draws out the demonic, 
beastly nature of dogs and wolves. A hound will have its Profile modified as
follows: WS +10, S +1, A +1, WP +10. All three types of wolves are affected by
this spell. A controlled  hound can be identified by its shining red eyes and
the hellish glow from its gaping maw. If a dog or wolf exceeds the 48 yard radius
of the caster, it willrevert to normal and regain control of itself.
The animal will undoubtedly run away, unless someone else can control it.
Control of hounds which have "escaped" can only be regained by casting the spell
again.

DE 3:

TRANSFORMATION

Spell Level: 3
Magic Points: 8 + 2 per turn
Range: Personal
Duration: 1+ turns
Ingredients: A body part of the appropriate animal

This spell allows the caster to take the form of a normal or giant rat, bat or wolf 
(not including Rock Rats or Dire Wolves). The caster gains all the characteristic
scores of the animal in question (except Intelligence which remains unchanged), 
plus any ability that the animal might have. If rendered unconscious by Wound 
loss or any other means, the caster reverts to human form. While in animal 
form, the Demonologist cannot cast spells or perform any other action which
the animal is not capable of. The initial transformation to animal form
costs 8 Magic Points and this lasts 1 turn; the form may be maintained at
an additional cost of 2 Magic Points per turn.

DE 4:

MUTATE

Spell Level: 4
Magic Points: 20
Range: Touch
Duration: Instantaneous
Ingredients: Powdered Warpstone

When a creature is touched by the caster of this spell, mutations occur
as if  by  the power of Chaos. A victim receives a test against WP to resist 
the effects of the spell.  On a failed test, determine the effects of the mutation
by referring to the Realm of Chaos book. A victim of Mutate should roll on
the mutant tables in Realm of Chaos. All deformities are permanent.
Creatures touched that are already mutants will receive another D4 mutations.
If no one is touched within 6 rounds of the spell«s casting, the spell dissipates
(or could inflict one mutation on the caster if he fails a WP test), but full 
Magic Points are still spent.
The spell may only be used to mutate one victim per casting. To touch a target,
the caster rolls to hit, ignoring  normal unarmed combat modifiers. 
No damage is done by the contact.
Mutations will certainly have serious effects on player characters and 
important non-player characters. The GM might rule that victims undergo 
specific personality changes. The character«s alignment might not change,
but he might gain Insanity Points or a Mental Disorder or two (WFRP p. 83-87).
Magically induced mutations might be reversed, but the task would certainly 
amount to a quest of some sort.

EM 1:

ANCHOR OF STONE

Spell Level: 1
Magic Points: 3
Range: 12 yards
Duration: Instantaneous
Ingredients: A ball of clay

When this spell is cast, earth and stone within a 6 yard radius will grab hold
of feet or body parts coming in contact with them. Each creature in the area
of effect may make an Initiative test to avoid the effect. Those that fail are 
unable to move their feet for 1D10 rounds. Stuck victims can still fight,
but suffer a -20 WS and BS modifier, while their opponents receive +20 WS 
and BS modifier for the purpose of attacks made against those held. No amount
of hacking will loosen the earthen or stone hold.

EM 2:

SHELTER

Spell Level: 2
Magic Points: 4
Range: 24 yards
Duration: Until next sunrise
Ingredients: A miniture of a stone structure

This spell allows the caster to command the earth to construct a shelter
within which he and others may reside. Certain types of earth are too 
unsound to form such a structure (ie. mud); even sand would make a sturdy
shelter, but solid rock will commonly be used.
A shelter comfortably houses two man-sized creatures  for each level of 
the caster, protecting them from the elements. A shelter has four walls, 
a ceiling and a floor. Consider it a single building section for destruction
purposes (WFRP, p. 77). After the next sunrise, the earth will return to its
former position, without harming anyone still inside.

EM 3:

FAERIE FORGE

Spell Level: 3
Magic Points: 10
Range: Touch
Duration: Until next sunrise
Ingredients: A metal weapon

By means of this spell, any forged weapon (ie. a sword, axe, spear point,
arrowhead, etc.) can be temporarily imbued with magical abilities. Until
the next sunrise, the weapon has the ability of Flame Attack (see WFRP,
p. 169). The weapon also counts as a magical weapon for the purpose of
hitting creatures only affected by by such weapons. This spell will not normally
affect weapons which already have magical properties. After the next sunrise,
the affected weapon returns to normal.

EM 4:

PURIFYING WIND

Spell Level: 4
Magic Points: 20
Range: 2800 yards
Duration: Instantaneous
Ingredients: The lung of a white swan

When cast, a purifying wind will blow through a region of 2400 yards in 
radius. This wind continues to blow for 2D6 rounds. While it is blowing,
the wind cancels the effects of all gases, such as poisonous clouds. It may
also cancel out any spells which taint the air in the area of effect. Such spells 
would include Cloud of Smoke, Dust Storm, Foul Air, Mystic Mist and 
Wind of Death. To maintain his spell, the caster of one of these spells will
have to make a successful WP test. Any Demonologist spells which summon
"writhing mists" (ie. Summon Magical Aid) that are cast in the area affected 
by the wind  will also be cancelled. If the Demonologist can make a successful
WP test, he may continue to cast his spell normally. Furthermore, ethereal
creatures, including all Ethereal Undead and Air Elementals, caught in the 
wind will suffer 1D10 + 4 Wounds. Ethereal Undead  also have twice the 
normal  chance of becoming Subject to Instability while the wind blows
(ie. roll 1D6 every  three rounds instead of every six).

IM 1:

INVISIBILITY

Spell Level: 1
Magic Points: 1 per 2D6 rounds
Range: Personal
Duration: 2D6 rounds
Ingredients: A piece of clear glass

This spell causes the caster to become invisible to normal sight.
He may still be seen by those with night vision unless he pays an additional
2 Magic Points. Anyone looking toward the invisible caster may see through
the illusion with a successful Intelligence test. An invisible person will
reveal his position by  talking, attacking, being struck, making noise,
leaving footprints and so on. If the position is so revealed, attacks made
against the Illusionist suffer a -10 modifier to hit until the position changes.
If the Illusionist«s position is unknown, attacks will miss altogether.
If attacks are actually aimed in his direction the attacker still suffers a -20
modifier.

IM 2:

ILLUSIONARY BLAZE

Spell Level: 2
Magic Points: 4 per 5D6 turns
Range: 48 yards
Duration: 5D6 turns
Ingredients: A vial of oil

The illusion of a roaring blaze is created. The blaze need not even arise from
a flammable source. It covers an area of up to 40 square yards. Anyone within
6 yards of the fire receives an Intelligence test to recognize the blaze for what
it is. Naturally, coming into contact with the flames dispels the illusion.

IM 3:

ANIMATE

Spell Level: 3
Magic Points: 6
Range: 48 yards
Duration: 1D6 turns
Ingredients: An inanimate object

This illusion causes inanimate objects to appear to come to life. A chair can
be made to dance about, a broom to fly, or a house to do flips. Only one object
can be made  to appear animate at a time. The object, in fact, remains
in its original location, but becomes invisible to all sight. Anyone observing
the animated "object" tests against Intelligence to recognize the illusion. 
Should the real, invisible object be touched, the illusion is dispelled. 
An animated object will have a Movement score of 6 and an Initiative of 70.
If it can be touched or struck, the illusion is dispelled, but since the "object"
is so quick, all WS and BS tests made suffer a -10  penalty. 
Animated "objects" will themselves avoid contacting victims for obvious
reasons.

IM 4:

DREAMWAVE

Spell Level: 4
Magic Points: 20
Range: 2800 yards
Duration: Instantaneous
Ingredients: A sleeping subject

By means of this spell, an Illusionist can enter the dreams of another person
and alter them to his desire. An intended victim receives a Will Power test.
If it succeeds, the caster cannot enter the subject«s dreams. No further attempts
can be made that night. A failed  test allows the Illusionist to intrude in the 
victim«s dreams. Obviously, there are numerous ways in which a dream may be
altered. The GM should decide what is allowed and what is not, but it should
be remembered that the Illusionist is the master in invaded dreams.
Wether the victim will die when killed in their dreams is up to the GM. 
The subject will certainly be affected during waking hours by  particularly  
intense dreams. Anxieties might arise; fears of certain places, actions or events 
might develop; or the person could become physically and emotionally drained 
(ie. Cl -10, T -1) for a number of days. Furthermore, should the victim encounter 
theIllusionist while awake, he will react accordingly (ie. Fear test, + 20 modifier
to Fellowship tests, etc.).
As soon as  the victim«s dream is ended, the Illusionist is expelled from the 
victim«s mind. This spell interferes with the maintenance of other illusions.

NM 1:

CONVERSE WITH DEAD

Spell Level: 1
Magic Points: 1 per turn
Range: 6 yards
Duration: 1+ turns
Ingredients: A jaw bone

By means of this spell, the caster may converse with the dead. The subject of
the spell must be within 6 yards of the caster and have been of roughly human 
intelligence in life. It need not be animated or controlled by the Necromancer
for the spell to function, but buried dead have to be exhumed before a conversation
can begin. The subject will only speak in those languages it knew in life.
It will remember events of its life and will have the same knowledge that it
did in life. A corpse may also be able to relate details about its present
surroundings. Dead conversationalists will certainly have personalities of
their own.

NM 2:

SKELETAL STEED

Spell Level: 2
Magic Points: 2 + T  of mount in living form
Range: Not applicable
Duration: Until next sunrise
Ingredients: A corpse, skeleton or enchanted bone of the beast to be summoned

This spell allows the caster to conjure a skeletal mount. Typical mounts include
horses, eagles and Hippogriffs. Wether a dragon can be conjured is up to the GM.
The  magic Point cost of the spell is dependent on the creature being summoned 
as a mount. The cost equals its Toughness as a living creature (see Bestiary), 
plus 2. A steed may be summoned in precisely the same way as normal skeletons.
A skeletal steed also causes fear in living creatures.
The skeletal steed is completely loyal to its creator and will follow his 
instructions implicitly, something  which can sometimes pose a problem.
If the Necromancer exceeds a 6 yard distance from his steed, it becomes
Subject to Instability and Stupidity. If a mount becomes unstable, it collapses,
never to rise again. A steed will attack on its rider«s command. Any hit from a
skeletal steed has a 35% chance of causing Infected Wounds. If the caster is
slain, the steed collapses. At the crack of the next dawn, the steed will disappear,
even if being riden at the time.
A skeletal mount has a profile similar to its living counterpart, but with the
following modifiers: W  is at 3/4; I -10; Ld, Int, Cl, WP all equal 18; Fel = 0.
The steed will retain those physical abilities it had in life that it could
logically still have.

NM 3:

ETHEREAL BANE

Spell Level: 3
Magic Points: 8
Range: Touch
Duration: Until next sunrise
Ingredients: Any weapon

By casting this spell, a Necromancer is able to enchant any  non-magical or
magical weapon. If not already magical, the weapon counts as  a magical
weapon for the purposes of hitting Ethereal Undead. For each blow that an
Ethereal Undead creature takes from such an enchanted weapon, an
Instability test is made (see WFRP , p. 215), even if the creature is in its place
of haunting.

NM4:

STEAL SOUL

Spell Level: 4
Magic Points: 20
Range: 2800 yards
Duration: Instantaneous
Ingredients: A possession or body part of the victim

This spell may be cast against another single character within 2800 yards
of the caster. The victim receives a test against Will Power to avoid  the
spell«s effects. Failure results in the victim«s soul being sucked from his body.
His soul instantly travels to the caster and may be imprisoned within a 
container of some kind, or may be allowed to dissipate to the winds, lost forever.
The victim«s body collapses. It continues to live, but is inanimated. If the
victim«s soul is not returned (or replaced in some way) within 2D6 days, 
his body will die. A body lacking a soul is considered prone for the purposes
of attacks made against it.

DR 1:

ANIMAL SENSE

Spell  Level: 1
Magic Points: 1 per turn
Range: Sight
Duration: 1+  turns
Ingredients: A sprig of mistletoe

This spell endows the caster with the ability to see, hear, smell, taste and
touch those things  that a designated animal does. Normal and giant animals
can be used, but not fantastic ones. The animal being used as the medium 
must be within sight. The caster cannot influence an animal«s actions or
gain knowledge of its thoughts or emotions. Only one animal can be used
as a medium at a time. The animal does not receive a WP test.

DR 2:

PURIFY

Spell Level: 2
Magic Points: Variable
Range: 48 yards
Duration: Variable
Ingredients: A handful of clean water or untainted soil

This spell allows the caster to cleanse a quantity of water or a tract of land.
Any impurities or diseases can be removed from water or soil. A single casting,
like purifying a well, pond or garden, would cost 4 Magic Points. A more 
demanding casting, like purifying a river, field or orchard would cost more
depending on the magnitude of the task. If any area larger than 48 yards in
radius is affected, 4 Magic Points are added per 48 yard area. The effects of the 
spellare permanent unless the impurities in the water or soil naturally
reemerge with time.

ACCELERATE GROWTH

Spell Level: 3
Magic Points: 8
Range: Touch
Duration: 2D6 turns
Ingredients: Tree sap or an animal heart

This spell causes ordinary plants and animals (including giant animals,
but not fantastic ones) to age in seconds and grow accordingly. The caster
may determine the point at which growth stops, but if allowed to continue
unchecked, old age and death will set in at the end of the round. The aged
plant or animal reverts to its original age  and size when dispelled or when 
the duration expires. A subject which dies of old age remains dead once the
spell is over. The GM should determine the precise effects on a plant or animal,
depending on the original age of the subject.

NM 4:

LIGHTNING STRIKE

Spell Level: 4
Magic Points: 15
Range: 2800 yards
Duration: Instantaneous
Ingredients: A metal rod

This spell allows the caster to summon a single bolt of lightning and command
it to strike a target up to 2800 yards away. Only one bolt can be summoned
per round, at a cost of 15 Magic Points. Stormy, or simply cloudy skies must be
overhead for the summons to operate. The spell will not function indoors
or underground. A bolt may be targeted at a character or a group of characters
or creatures. Target restrictions apply in the same way as for missile fire
(see Targetting Spells, WFRP, p. 136). A summoned bolt hits its target automatically.
If fired into a group it will hit 1D6 characters or creatures per level of the caster.
A hit causes 2D8 Wounds at Strength 7 (irrespective of armor) and will cause
additional 1D12 Wounds to flammable targets.
Creatures which are Subject to Fear of fire will have to make a fear test. 
Summoned lightning is similar to a magic missile. Victims of a lightning
bolt may attempt to dodge the blast by testing against Initiative. If successful,
the character only  takes half damage. 

[What a Power-Blast! Perhaps  damage should  be reduced to 2D6 W. But I like
the idea of Deadly Druids!]


