From: Ian Ward <ACA95IDW@sheffield.ac.uk>
Subject: [WFRP:1384] Alluminas description

*Alluminas - Master of Light, Lord of Enlightenment

>Description:
 Alluminas, esoteric brother of Arianka and Solkan, embodies a pure, 
unchanging light which renders anything it strikes unmoving and 
unchanging, and the idea of total divine enlightenment.  His 
worshippers are few in the Old World, but his centre of worship lies 
in the far eastern states of Cathay and Nippon, where he has several 
monastic orders, the Monks of the Light (or 'White Monks': you might 
like to use the monk careers in the archives or just use the normal 
cleric careers as an approximation).
 Whether in the Old World or the far east, worshippers of Alluminas 
all share one thing, the search for the Enlightenment which is 
oneness with their master.  They study the scriptures of Alluminas as 
set out in his holy book (the Alluminamus), meditate to strive for 
oneness in spirit and follow the Fourfold Path: through Thought, 
Meditation, Dedication and Understanding come, ultimately, divine 
Enlightenment.

>Alignment:
 Lawful.

>Symbol:
 Alluminas' chief symbol is that of a four spoked wheel, representing 
the Fourfold Path.  A less common symbol, but one more popular in the 
west, is that of a candle.
 The White Monks wear white robes with the four spoked wheel 
embroidered in gold on the left breast.  Old World worshippers 
usually wear the symbol of the candle somewhere on their clothes or 
carry an amulet bearing the symbol, but generally not in plain sight.

>Area of Worship:
 Alluminas has very few worshippers in the Old World and the vast 
majority of his cult is made up of the White Monks of Cathay and 
Nippon, whose monasteries can be found in the more mountainous areas.  
He also has a few followers who travel the world, seeking out chaos, 
though little else is known of them.

>Temples:
 Alluminas has no temples or shrines in the Old World and worshippers 
generally maintain shrines in their homes.  In Cathay and Nippon, 
temples are built as part of the monasteries.
 Whether small shrine or large temple, worship areas consecrated to 
Alluminas are simple and uncluttered.  The focus of the room is a 
wooden table, covered with a white cloth which is often embroidered 
with one of Alluminas' symbols.  On the table is a candle, which must 
always remain lit - if it is allowed to go out then the temple/shrine 
must be reconsecrated to Alluminas before it can be used again.  
Beside the candle lies the Alluminamus.

>Friends and Enemies:
 Alluminas has little to do with the majority of religions - their 
weak stance against chaos makes them next to useless in the struggle 
against it and hence not worth his attention.  He is hostile to the 
gods of chaos (especially the traitorous Obscuras, who turned away 
from law to rule over his own dark shadow realm) and has friendly 
relations with the other law gods.

>Holy Days:
 Alluminas' main holy days are the Spring equinox and Summer soltice, 
while the Autumn equinox and Winter solstice are lesser holy days, as 
are days when Mannslieb is full.  Vigils are held on the nights when 
Morrslieb is full to ward off chaos.

>Cult Requirements:
 Followers of Alluminas must be human and be willing to seek the true 
path of enlightenment, regardless of the sacrifices they have to 
make.

>Strictures:
 - Oppose chaos whereever and whenever it is found.
 - Study the Alluminamus, spend at least six hours a day in 
meditation to Alluminas and follow the Fourfold Path.
 - Abstain from the consumption of alcohol or other drugs, and from 
sexual activity.  Such things divert the mind from the primary task 
of seeking enlightenment.

>Spell Use:
 For spell use, the White Monks count as varying levels of cleric:  
Initiate monks get no magic, full monks count as clerics of level 1 
to 4 (depending on the monks seniority) and the Abbot is always level 
four.  Alluminas grants access to all petty and battle magic spells, 
as well as the following special spells:

  >Enlighten mind
  Level 1, 6 MP, 48 yds range, D2 rounds duration
  This spell, which can be cast at any target within 48 yds or on the 
caster himself, has varying effects, depending on who it is cast on:
  - On followers of Alluminas it brings temporarily heightened 
enlightenment on the glory of Alluminas, giving +20 WP.
  - On the unenlightened (anyone else), it casts the same images into 
their minds but they are interpreted differently and cause temporary 
confusion and distraction.  The target suffers -20 to BS, I and Int, 
and -10 to WS and WP.  These penalties are halved if the target 
passes a WP test.

  >Hand of Light
  Level 2, 8 MP, personal range, D6+3 turns duration
  This spell causes the casters hand to glow with an intense light.  
The light has two effects:
  (i)  It inflicts D6 W's at (casters' S)+1 on a successful touch in 
unarmed combat.  Normal unarmed combat modifiers apply.
  (ii) It distracts melee opponents, causing them to have a -10 
penalty to I and WS.  This effect is avoided if the opponent passes a 
WP roll to keep his concentration.  Note that the opponent attempting 
to shield or avert his eyes from the light would cause the same 
penalties.

  >LightBall
  Level 3, 12 MP, 48 yds range, instantaneous
  This spell allows the caster to throw a ball of pure light at a 
target within 48 yds.  It is a magical missile and automatically hits 
its' target.  It inflicts D10 W's at a stength of 6 and non-magical 
armour is ignored.  Targets with Night Vision or who are currently 
affected by the Night Sight spell are partially blinded for one round 
(-20 to WS, BS and I) by the intense frequencies contained within the 
ball that are outside the normal visible range.

>Skills:
 Initiates and initiate monks can and must buy Meditation skill at 
normal EP cost before advancing to level one cleric or full monk 
status.

>Trials:
 Trials to Alluminas usually involve long periods of meditation (a 
number of hours equal to twice the characters' WP, say).  Trials 
involving actively seeking out chaos are less common, as they 
interrupt the quiet life that aids enlightenment.

>Blessings:
 Alluminas is extremely selective as regards who he gives blessings, 
even more so than other gods (I'd suggest he grants a blessing on a 
roll of 1-2 on D1000), and such blessings are wondrous events, 
usually given only to Monks of the Light who have spent years or 
decades in worshipping him.  The most wondrous of the blessings 
Alluminas will grant is the Call of the Ancestors, described below.


*The Call of the Ancestors

 The Hall of the Ancestors is a great and wondrous place.  It is a 
great hall with many statues, the forever preserved bodies of those 
who have acheived total enlightenment and left the confines of their 
mortal bodies to join Alluminas in his divine realm.  They are the 
statues of the Enlightened.
 Ocasionally, a monk reaches a state of almost total understanding.  
He feels the Call of the Ancestors and makes his way to the hall, 
where he meditates before one of the holy statues.  He enters an 
almost unbreakable holy trance and his physical needs (food, drink, 
sleep) become ever smaller, until the monk (after many years of 
meditation at least) becomes perfectly Enlightened.
 He will be commanded to take up his place with the other statues, 
and will then be struck by Alluminas' heavenly light.  His body will 
become frozen as it is, ever preserved, and his spirit will join with 
Alluminas in his divine realm.
 The spirit becomes a Seraph, a divine agent (I don't like the word 
'demon' with the law gods) of Alluminas.  It gains wings and its' 
true height is doubled to a minimum of ten feet.  The Seraphs' stats 
are given by taking the mortal stats and applying the following: S+2, 
T+2, Wx2, I+20, A+2, WP+20.  Seraphim are immune to non-magical 
attacks and all psychology except if caused by a god.  They cause 
fear in creatures under ten feet tall and all chaos creatures below 
the rank of greater demon, and their own attacks count as magical.  
Any magic a Seraph could cast while mortal it can now cast at no 
magic point cost.
 When Seraphim return to the material realm (usually only at the 
command of Alluminas or to warn former colleagues of some grave 
threat) they can choose to appear in their true form (complete with 
wings and all ten feet of height) or as when mortal.  In the latter 
case, a Seraph may choose to cause fear or not (and in whom it wants 
to), walking around and getting no special attention at all, as it 
desires.

  TTFN.  Ian Ward 
  aca95idw@sheffield.ac.uk
  ---------------------------------------------
  "That which we do not bring to consciousness, 
   appears in our lives as fate."  (C.C.Jung)
