From MadAlfred@aol.comWed Oct  4 12:49:13 1995
Date: Wed, 4 Oct 1995 01:02:46 -0400
From: MadAlfred@aol.com
To: toaster@pvv.unit.no
Subject: Cult of Khaine

Thomas,

   As I looked the WFRP Archives that you're maintaining, I noticed that you
are missing two cult descriptions that I wrote.  The first is my version of
the Cult of Khaine while the second covers (your friend and mine) Solkan the
Avenger.  I don't believe that it was intentional, so I'm sending you both
cult descriptions.  First Khaine...

Alfred Nunez
MadAlfred@AOL.com

KHAINE -- God of Murder and Undead

Description: Khaine is the dread Lord of Murder-- the patron of assassins and
murderers-- and God of the Undead.  It is said that he is jealous of his
elder brother
Morr's rulership over the world of the dead.  Khaine steals the souls of
those
unprotected by a cult and those murdered or sacrificed in his name.  With
these
souls he builds his own dark realm, a realm from where Necromancers call
forth
some of the Undead spirits.
   Khaine is depicted as a grotesque, squatting daemonic being with a huge,
leering
fanged mouth, a great horned head, and four arms, each holding a bloody
dagger.
He also wears a necklace of innumerable skulls. Khaine is an insane god
worshipped either by murderous men or would-be Necromancers eager to wield
the powers Khaine offers in return for service. Khaine is generous to those
who
add to his dark realm with offerings of blood and murdered souls.

Alignment: Evil.

Symbol:  Khaine's symbols are a scorpion poised to strike and a  human bone
carved in the likeness of Khaine. In secret rituals and ceremonies, Initiates
and
Clerics wear black robes or other  outer garments trimmed with red and
yellow,
and elaborate masks depicting the horned, fang-jawed face of Khaine. 
Additionally, they bear staves carved from human bone which feature the
fanged
skull motif.

Area of Worship: A secret cult proscribed and actively persecuted in the Old
World and Araby.  The cult of Khaine originally found followers in ancient
Kemet
which worshipped a large pantheon of decadent gods. Khaine is still
worshipped
openly in isolated areas in the Badlands and the Dark Lands. Worship in the
Old
World is rare and followers remain few.

Temples: There are no obvious temples nor shrines to Khaine in the Old World
or
Araby.  Instead, his worship is pursued in secret temples and shrines hidden
in
basements, caves, remote areas, etc.  There is no common architecture to
these
places of worship, except for blood stained altar before a statue of Khaine.
 
Participants in ceremonies and rituals take mind- altering drugs which
facilitate
communion with the Lord of Murder and Undeath.  Primarily, these rituals
consist
of consecrating souls in ritual sacrifices to Khaine.  In other cases, these
rituals
may be conducted as a petition to Khaine to grant participants Unlife so they
can
better serve his will.

Friends and Enemies: Friends to no one, not even to the Chaos cults as the
cult
of Khaine tends to be treacherous, unpredictable, and highly unreliable.
 Eternal
enemy of cults of Old World, Morr and Ormazd in particular.

Holy Days: Khaine has no holy days.  Khaine will always accept a soul
dedicated
to him.  If the sacrifice pleases Khaine, he may bestow a blessing. At times,
Initiates and Clerics may be directed by Khaine to undertake more aggressive
programs of murder and assassination or more ritual sacrifices. Failure to
perform
to Khaine's pleasure will usually result in an insanity point or two.  After
all, his
followers may be able to perform better if a little more unhinged.

Cult Requirements: None.  However, Khaine does not permit cultist to renounce
his worship at a later date.  Any attempt to do so guarantees a horrific
death
which sends the soul to his dark realm for eternal torture.

Strictures: Followers of Khaine must abide by the following strictures:
   -Serve Khaine by feeding his power through sacrifice and populate his dark
realm.
   -Never permit an opponent to live as their deaths-- preferably as a
ritualized
sacrifice-- better serve Khaine.
   -By advancing his cause and performing required tasks, one will can power
and
eternal (un)life.
   -Failure to perform a task requires a death, even one's own, to atone for
that
failure.
   -Those souls populating Khaine's dark realm may be called forth to perform
specific tasks in the Land of the Living.  These tasks must involve
additional
deaths so that Khaine's cause is advanced.

Spell Use: Clerics of Khaine may use any Petty Magic, Battle Magic, and
Necromantic Magic spells.

Skills: In addition to the skills normally available to Initiate and Clerics,
followers of
Khaine may pick one extra skill at each level, from the following list:
Arcane
Language-Necromancy, Concealment-Rural, Concealment-Urban, Disguise,
Frenzied Attack, Herb Lore, Hypnotise, Prepare Poison, Shadowing, Silent
Move-
Rural, Silent Move-Urban, Street Fighting.

Trials: Trials set by Khaine typically involve the capture and ritualistic
murder of a
cult enemy.

Blessings: Khaine favors the skills listed above.  Favored tests include fear
and
terror so that the servant of Khaine can retain some control in their
dealings with
the more powerful of the Undead.  A blessing from Khaine may include a
temporary increase in Will Power and Cool, as well as a permanent increase in
the
number of Insanity Points, so that his cultist may better serve Khaine.
