From MadAlfred@aol.comMon Aug 14 08:48:18 1995
Date: Thu, 9 Feb 1995 23:58:04 -0500
From: MadAlfred@aol.com
Reply to: The wfrp mailing list <wfrp@gojira.monsta.com>
To: WFRP@gojira.monsta.com
Subject: WFRP: Cult Spells

   In addition to the cult related careers, I developed some new cult related
spells.  These are detailed below.

(Obligatory copyright statement)
   I am releasing the following material I have written which may be used
only in a GM's home campaign.  I reserve all rights to the descriptive
material while system-specific material is copyright by GW.


Alfred Nunez
MadAlfred@AOL.com
Hauptdirektor-Schwarzmantel



===Petty===

Ease Pain (Rhya)
Spell Level: Petty
Magic Points: 2
Range: Touch
Duration: Instantaneous
Ingredients: Small cloth or feather
   This spell grants the cleric the ability to ease the pain experienced by
an individual.  Usually it's used to ease the pain of childbirth and other
minor injuries which does not normally result in a loss of W.  However, this
spell can be used to lessen the effects of any first level spell which cause
injury (such as a fireball).  If cast on the victim within 10 rounds of
injury, the wounds inflicted are reduced by 1 (even if the character is
seriously wounded). 


===First Level===

Morr's Peace (Morr)
Spell Level: First
Magic Points: 1
Range: Touch
Duration: Instantaneous
Ingredients: None
   The spell grants the cleric the ability to protect the soul of the newly
deceased by summoning a Guide of Morr (Lesser Daemon of Morr in ethereal
form) to escort that soul to Morr's dark realm.  In areas where Morr has
sacred ground (e.g., cemeteries, shrines) within 25 miles, the Guide collects
the soul immediately.  Outside that radius, there is a very small chance (2%)
that a spirit minion of Khaine arrives to capture the soul before the Guide
of Morr can arrive.  Without this spell, Guides of Morr have only 75% chance
of finding the spirit of the newly deceased.  Those souls not found may
wander the land as restless spirits.  These spirits tend to be those located
by Necromancers and used for their nefarious purposes.
   This spell also provides some protection for the decease's body from
Necromancers.  To use a body protected by this spell, the Necromancer must
test with a -30 penalty to their WP.  Failure brings additional risks to the
Necromancer as Morr alerts his Witch Hunters to their presence.  Should the
Necromancer "fumble" (roll doubles) his failure, Morr may send a Guide of
Morr (in physical form) in place of a Witch Hunter to deal with the
troublesome Necromancer.


===Second Level===

Sunspear (Ormazd)
Spell Level: Second
Magic Points: 8
Range: 10 yards
Duration: Instantaneous
Ingredients: A 1" copper rod
   The cleric grants the ability to call down a narrow beam of fire from the
heavens which burns one targeted individual or creature.  This spell may only
be cast if sunlight is present.
   Non-flammable creatures receive 1d6+2 wounds at Strength 6.  Flammable
creatures receive 2d6+4 wounds at Strength 6.  Flammable objects struck by
the sunspear burst into flame.
   The sunspear has great power against Daemons and Undead, causing 2d6+4
wounds at Strength 6 and blinding the target for 1d4 rounds.  Also, such
creatures must make an Instability test immediately.  Any control exercised
over targeted Undead is immediately broken and must be re-established by the
controller.


Ward Vegetation (Rhya)
Spell Level: Second
Magic Points: 5 per 125 Cubic Yards
Range: touch
Duration: 1d3 days
Ingredients: None
   The cleric is granted the power to protect a large area of vegetation (and
the soil within which they are rooted) from blight and other infestations.
 In addition, this spell can slow any seepage of contamination from Chaos
substances such as Warpstone and Warpdust.
   The volume to be warded must be marked off by holy symbols inscribed onto
the barks of trees and stems of smaller plants.  Once invoked, the inscribed
symbols disappear from normal view and can only be perceived by those with
the Magical Sense skill. 


===Third Level===

Flaming Scimitar (Ormazd)
Spell Level: Third
Magic Points: 10
Range: Touch
Duration: 1d6+3 rounds
Ingredients: A 2" plate of burnished copper
   The cleric is granted the ability to cause one touched scimitar to become
a magical flaming weapon for the duration of the spell.  In addition this
spell grants the wielder of the flaming scimitar a temporary increase of +10
to WS and +1 to Strength.
   Non-flammable creatures receive 1d6+2 wounds at the strength of the
wielder.  Flammable creatures receive 2d6+4 wounds at the strength of the
wielder.  Flammable objects struck by the flaming scimitar burst into flame.
   The flaming scimitar has great power against Daemons and Undead, causing
2d6+4 wounds at the strength of the wielder.  Such creatures must make an
Instability test immediately.  Any control exercised over targeted Undead is
immediately broken and must be re-established by the controller.


Meld into Stone (Grungni)
Spell Level:  Third
Magic Points: 6
Range: Touch
Duration: 1d6+3 rounds
Ingredients: Crushed stone
   Once invoked, this spell grants the cleric or fellow cultist the ability
to meld into stone objects (including most tunnel walls).  This spell also
permits the individual passage through stone objects at that person's
cautious rate of movement.  Should the individual still be in the stone
object at the time the spell effect expires, then they are ejected from the
stone at the point they entered.  If underground, the effected individual may
enter another passage, room, or chamber before the spell ends to avoid being
returned to the point of entry.


Summon Pack (Ulric)
Spell Level: Third 
Magic Points: 8 MP to invoke, +1 MP per turn after first 
Range: 2500 yards radius, centered on the invoking cleric
Duration: Variable
Ingredients:Pinch of wolf hair
   Once invoked, the nearest pack of wolves within the area of effect will be
summoned to the side of the cleric.  For the duration of the spell, the
primary duty of the pack is to protect the cleric from anything harmful.
 This could range from huddling against the cleric to keep him warm during a
winter storm to defending him from enemies in the great forests of the
northern Old World (such as Goblins, Beastmen, etc.).  In addition, the pack
will fight alongside the cleric should the latter decide to press the attack
against his enemies.  Under no circumstance will the pack attack on orders
from the cleric.  Ordering the wolves to attack while the cleric is standing
back from combat is very much against the principles of Ulric (it is a
cowardly act, after all).  Any cleric treating the summoned pack in this
manner will immediately end the spell and subject himself to the displeasure
of Ulric (thus prompting some sort of penance).
   Wolves that serve as mounts for Goblins are immune to this spell as they
are beyond the influence of Ulric (these wolves are considered to be in the
service of the Orcish deities).  


Sword of Cleansing Flame (Solkan)
Spell Level: 3 
Magic Points: 15 Range: 
Touch Duration: 1d6+3 rounds 
Ingredients: None
   This spell grants the cleric the ability to cause one touched sword to
become a magical flaming weapon for the duration of the spell.  In addition
this spell grants the wielder of the sword of cleansing flame a temporary
increase of +10 to WS and +1 to Strength.
   Inflammable creatures receive 1d6+2 wounds at the strength of the wielder
while flammable creatures receive 2d6+4 wounds at the strength of the
wielder.  Flammable objects struck by the swordof cleansing flame will be set
aflame.
   The sword of cleansing flame has great power against Daemons and Chaotic
beings, causing 3d6+6 wounds at the strength of the wielder.  Also, Daemons
hit by the sword of the cleansing flame must make an Instability test
immediately, even those who are protected by the Daemonic Magic spell Stop
Daemonic Instability (Level 2).


Ward Portals (Myrmidia)
Spell Level: Third
Magic Points: 10 + 5 per additional day
Range: 20 yards
Duration: Until sunrise of the following day
Ingredients: A wooden wedge
   Once invoked, the cleric is granted the ability to provide some protection
to all doors or gates of a stronghold within the spell's range against
physical and sorcerous attacks.  All doors warded against such attacks add a
+1 modifier to their T while stronghold gates add a +2 modifier.  In
addition, warded portals nullify any magic which could open such portals
without attacking them (such as the petty spell "Open").


===Fourth Level===

Alter Appearance (Ranald)
Spell Level: Fourth
Magic Points: 10
Range: Touch
Duration: 5d6 rounds
Ingredients: A party mask
   The cleric is granted the power to alter the outward appearance of an
individual (including self) and their clothing/trappings.  This alteration
may change the individual's height (up to one foot in either direction),
weight (maximum 25 lbs.), body shape, hair color and length, eye color, and
other distinguishing features.  The specifics of the altered appearance is
determined by the invoking cleric (with a 10% chance that Ranald overrides
the cleric's decision in favor of his own).  This spell does not change the
personality, age, or gender of the individual.  In addition, this spell does
not allow an individual to assume the appearance of a specific personality
(such as the Emperor).  Anyone suspicious of the altered individual must test
against Intelligence with a -30% modifier to see through the alteration
(Illusionists and clerics of Ranald do not apply the negative modifier).
 Other modifiers may applying depending upon how the altered individual
behaves and uses other appropriate skills (e.g., acting).
   When invoked, the effect of this spell takes effect immediately for any
willing follower of Ranald (including the invoking cleric).  Those who do not
follow Ranald have a innate resistance to this spell and require a failed WP
test to have their appearance altered.  An unwilling follower of Ranald must
also take a WP test to resist.


Intervention (Solkan)
Spell Level: 4 
Magic Points: 25 
Range: 100 yards 
Duration: 1d3 hours 
Ingredients: None
   The spell grants the cleric an appeal to his patron to possess a cultist
(or invoking Cleric) during an extremely dire situation (e.g., being
surrounded by a Chaos warband led by a Greater Daemon).  The possessed
cultist assumes the profile and abilities of a Greater Daemon.  In addition,
the effected cultist grows in height to that of a Greater Daemon and may
cause fear in creatures of less than 10 feet in height.  Note: the possessed
cultist will always follow the dictates of their patron deity.
   There is a high degree of risk to the possessed cultist, however, in that
the driving force of Solkan's burning passions may consume the cultist.  The
effected cultist must test vs. Toughness x 10, adding a +10 modifier.
 Success means that the cultist will be exhausted and unable to perform
strenuous activities for the following 1d3 hours.  If failed by 20 or less
points, the cultist suffers 1d6 wounds at strength 5 from burns inflicted by
the possession.  If failed by over 20 points, the cultist suffers 2d6 wounds
at strength 10.


Pacify (Liadriel)
Spell Level: Fourth
Magic Points: 12
Range: Cleric
Duration: Until next sunrise
Ingredients: A drop of wine
   This spell grants the invoking cleric the ability to calm all creatures
within the area of effect (25 yards centered on the cleric) who are hostile
towards the cleric or his companions.  These once hostile creatures will lay
down their weapons and sit as they find contentment in the song or music that
must accompany this spell.  Moreover, should the invoking cleric pass a Fel
test (with the appropriate modifiers), these creatures may be called upon to
provide a service, such as protecting the cleric and his companions or
leaving them alone.  Naturally, any request that is obviously intended to do
the pacified creatures harm ("Would you mind looking the other way while I
slipped this sword through your ribs.") will automatically end the spell's
effect.  If the cleric luckily survives that episode, he'll still have to
contend with Liadriel (after all, this action would definitely be a gross
violation of Liadriel's principles).
   This spell also provides the cleric and his companions with a +20 modifier
to all fear and a +10 modifier to all terror tests caused by hostile
creatures within the area of effect.


Sanctify Food (Esmeralda)
Spell Level: Fourth
Magic Points: 14
Range: 25 yards
Duration: Immediate
Ingredients: A pinch of salt
   This spell grants the invoking cleric the ability to neutralize any
poison, toxins, and deleriants added to any food and drink within the area of
effect.  Additionally, this spell reverses any spoilage and resulting
(natural) toxins from the effected food and drink.  So healthy does the food
and drink become that anyone wounded will recover D3 wounds simply by
consuming such food and drink.  Should the consumer be suffering from the
effects of disease, poison, etc., they will be able to take another Toughness
test with a +30 modifier to overcome their affliction.
   Note: the benefits of the spell occur immediately upon consumption of the
food and drink.  Any failed test cannot be retaken until another spell is
invoked.


Summon Undead of Morr (Morr)
Spell Level: Fourth
Magic Points: 25
Range: 10 yards of cleric
Duration: Until next dawn
Ingredients: Feather of a raven
   The cleric is granted the power to summon the deceased soul of a Morr
cultist in whatever form Morr decided will fit the purposes of the cleric.
 The Undead of Morr must be summoned within 10 yards of the invoking cleric.
 Unlike other undead, the Undead of Morr do not require controllers.  In
fact, they can think and act independent without penalty.  Undead of Morr
understand their task as well as their current state of existence.  Once
their task is completed, the spirit returns to Morr's realm.
 
Undead of Morr
 M   WS  BS   S   T    W    I   A   Dex   Ld   Int   Cl   WP   Fel
  4    55   55*   4   4   24   65   3    50*   60   60   75   80    45
          * assumes form is physical

Magic Points: 35

Undead of Morr are immune to psychological rules, cannot be forced to leave
combat and, if they choose, cause terror in all living creatures.  Undead of
Morr can even cause fear in all undead creatures except liches, vampires, and
wraiths.  Moreover, Undead of Morr have spellcasting abilities and spell
availability of a third level cleric of Morr.  Further, Undead of Morr are
not subject to instability unless they are on sacred ground of Khaine,
Orcish, Daemonic, or Chaos cults.


Summon Wild Hunt (Taal)
Spell Level: Fourth
Magic Points: 30
Range: 10 yards of cleric
Duration: Until the hunt is completed or dawn breaks
Ingredients: A hunter's horn
   One of the strongest available to clerics, this spell must be used only in
the most desperate of situations (e.g., when a mighty Chaos warband of thirty
strong led by a Chaos Hero is about to descend on a camp of a young noble
lady escorted by three armed guardsmen).  The spell grants the cleric the
power to summon the Wild Hunt into the world.  The Huntsman and his hounds
appear facing the direction of their quarry, but wait for the cleric's
request before sounding the horn (signaling that the hunt has begun).  The
Huntsman, a large man with stag antlers and cloven hooves for feet, runs with
the baying hounds as they pursue their prey.  He is armed with spear, sword,
and bow and may use spells as if he were a fourth level cleric of Taal.
 Should the quarry be particularly powerful, the Huntsman may tap into the
Magic Points of his hounds.  Thus, only the strongest of foe have any chance
-- remote that it is -- to survive the hunt.

Huntsman
 M   WS  BS   S   T    W    I   A   Dex   Ld   Int   Cl   WP   Fel
  9    85   55    9    9   22  85   6    75    85   85   85    85    55

Magic Points: 40

6 Hounds of the Wild Hunt
 M   WS  BS   S   T    W    I   A   Dex  Ld   Int    Cl   WP   Fel
  9    45    0     5    5   11  55   3     0    40   35   60    40    25 

Magic Points: 10

   Should the cleric summon the Wild Hunt for a trivial matter (e.g., killing
a band of ten goblin wolfriders because the cleric and his four buddies
didn't want to risk themselves in a battle), the Huntsman will appear without
his hounds.  Facing the offending cleric, the Huntsman will announce that the
cleric has incurred the wrath of Taal and punishment would be forthcoming.
 There is a 10% chance that the punishment will result in the offending
cleric becoming the object of the hunt (in which case the Huntsman will give
the cleric a fifteen minute head start).  Otherwise, the Huntsman will simply
vanished and the cleric will have to await Taal's decision.


Ward Battlements (Myrmidia)
Spell Level: Fourth
Magic Points: 20 + 10 per additional day
Range: 35 yards
Duration: Until sunrise of the following day
Ingredients: A small blanket
   Once invoked, the cleric is granted the power to ward any 20 ft section of
battlement or wall in which soldiers defend against melee and missile
attacks.  Missile attacks against these warded structures and the soldiers
who defend them are made at a -20 modifier to BS (in addition to other
modifiers, such as hard cover) and a -1 modifier to the ES (Strength) of the
weapon.  For example, a crossbow normally has a weapon ES of 4.  Against a
defender behind a warded wall, the weapon will have an ES of 3.  Attackers
fighting over the warded structures suffer a -10 modifier to WS (in addition
to other modifiers, such as hard cover) and a -1 modifier to the attacker's
S.  Once over the warded battlement of wall, the attacker may melee without
any further effects from this spell.
   In addition, this spell weakens the strength of sorcerous (wizard's) magic
directed at the warded battlement or wall.  All sorcerous spells suffer a -2
modifier to S.  Further, defenders of the warded structure gain a +10
modifier on saves against area of effect spells.  Note that this does not
effect spells which are not area of effect, but can be targeted on an
individual.

