From MadAlfred@aol.comWed Oct  4 12:49:21 1995
Date: Wed, 4 Oct 1995 01:04:26 -0400
From: MadAlfred@aol.com
To: toaster@pvv.unit.no
Subject: Cult of Solkan

Now here's everyone's favorite fanatic...

SOLKAN -- Law God of Vengeance and Retribution

Description:  Solkan is the brother of Alluminas (god of heavenly
illumination) and
brother/consort of Arianka (goddess of law and discipline) and is the angry
god of
vengeance and retribution.  He is most often depicted as a tall, intense man
on the
edge of fury.  Solkan is usually attired either in shiny armor or in black
clothing
with a wide brim black hat.  In either appearance, Solkan is always armed
with his
flaming sword of vengeance, Flammendrung.
   The cult believes that Solkan was the foremost of the Law Gods who allied
themselves with the forces opposing the Chaos powers.  The alliance was more
one of convenience than of convergent beliefs.  It was the Law Gods who
advocated total war with the goal of eradication of Chaos, even at the risk
of
destroying everything.  When the war ended in stalemate, the Law Gods broke
from the alliance.  In conjunction with Arianka, Solkan became the most
unrelenting foe of Chaos.  Sometime later, the complex machinations of
Tzeentch,
the Changer of the Ways, resulted in the capture and imprisonment of Arianka.

Deprived of his sister/consort (and receiving no help from his esoteric
brother
Alluminas), Solkan intensified (if such was possible) his campaign against
Chaos
while searching for Arianka.  Solkan also became the patron of law and
discipline
at the time of Arianka's imprisonment.
   Some scholars of divine matters believe the Law Gods to be another
manifestation of Chaos and point out that worship of the Law Gods did not
commence in any form until sometime after the coming of Chaos.  Others say
that
the Gods of Law pursued the Chaos powers into the world to continue their
ages
old war.  Whatever the truth, all scholars of divine matters agree it is
safest not to
discuss these matters within earshot of any Gods of Law cultists.

Alignment:  Law. 

Symbol:  Solkan's symbol is the flame.  Priests wear black hooded robes
trimmed
with the colors of fire (reds, oranges, and yellows) and wear amulets of
blackened
iron with a fire opal embedded into its center (representing the cleansing
flame).

Area of Worship:  Solkan is worshipped throughout the Old World.  In the
past,
Solkan was the principle deity of the now-extinct, militant Hellene
city-state of
Spartius.  Solkan also enjoyed some popularity (which varied with each
Emperor)
within the Remean Empire.  Currently, the followers of Solkan are few
compared
to other Old World cults (though more numerous than Alluminas).

Temples:  Once there were great temples dedicated to Solkan.  The two largest
were located in Spartius (ruins of which are buried beneath the soil in the
land of
Border Princes) and the Tilean city-state of Remas.  These temples were
solidly
built structures with outer columns surrounding the exterior walls.  The
columns
and walls were austere in design, lacking ornamentation of any sort.  The
interior
of the temples were unfurnished except for an altar and podium upon which
stood
the Solkan "Book of Laws" (lost in some past disaster).  What remains of the
temple in Remas is largely ruins with only a small portion still in use.
 Here, amid
uncaring masses (to whom the Chaos threat serves only to frighten wayward
children), remains the center of the cult and its hierarchy.
   The temples' decline can be traced to increasing intolerance, fear, and
distrust
of Old Worlders towards the narrow perceptions and rigidness of the
Solkanites. 
In accord with this decline was the rise of the Solkan shrines where cultists
meet
in small, highly cohesive groups.  These shrines are generally located
adjacent to
homes of a priest, near courtrooms, or housed at a location purchased by
cultists. 
Outwardly, these shrines can not be distinguished from the surrounding
buildings. 
The interiors, however, resemble the old temple interiors with only an altar
and
podium as furnishings.

Friends and Enemies:  As the cults of Sigmar and Ulric are seen as the
forefront
of the weak struggle against Chaos, the cult of Solkan affords them minimal
respect, while being somewhat contemptible of the other Old World cults.
 Also,
they are openly hostility towards the cult of Ranald for their flaunting of
authority. 
Moreover, the cult of Solkan has a barely concealed disdain for cults of the
Elder
Races (they failed miserably in the first battles to eradicate Chaos).
 Further, the
cult is the sworn enemies of-- and possess unbridled hatred toward-- all
Chaos
cults (the four powers and the Horned Rat), including the renegade powers
(e.g.,
Malal, Zuvassin).

Holy Days:  There are no specific holy days dedicated to Solkan as the threat
of
Chaos is unrelenting and cultists must be ever vigilant.

Cult Requirements:  Any who petition to join the cult must be free of Chaos
taint
and approved by a Cleric.

Strictures:  Followers of Solkan must abide by the following:
   -Always oppose and, if possible, exterminate Chaos and its minions
whenever
and wherever they are encountered.
   -Never allow those who are soft and blind to the Chaos threat dissuade one
from
the primary task.
   -Never allow others' opinions of oneself or Solkan to deter from the
primary
duty.
   -Always hold inviolate the letter of the law (unless that law is counter
to the
above principles).  The so-called "spirit of the law" concept is employed by
those
too weak to discipline law-breakers.
   -Always oppose foolish "laws" which make a mockery of the natural order. 
Examples include edicts which would protect servants of Chaos (mutants,
cultists,
etc.) and those that grant the lowly classes (thieves, beggars, peasants) the
same
rights as those of higher breeding (aristocracy).
   -Never allow a wrong to go unanswered.

Spell Use: Clerics of Solkan may use all Petty Magic, Battle Magic, and
fire-based
Elemental Magic spells.  In addition, clerics of Solkan may have access to
the
Daemonic spells Dispel Lesser Daemons (Level 1), Zone of Daemonic Protection
(Level 1), Zone of Daemonic Nullification (Level 2), Dispel Daemonic Horde
(Level
3), and Dispel Greater Daemon (Level 4).  Moreover, the following spells may
be
used by clerics of Solkan:

Sword of Cleansing Flame
Spell Level: 3
Magic Points: 15
Range: Touch
Duration: 1d6+3 rounds
Ingredients: None
   This spell grants the cleric the ability to cause one touched sword to
become a
magical flaming weapon for the duration of the spell.  In addition this spell
grants
the wielder of the sword of cleansing flame a temporary increase of +10 to WS
and +1 to Strength.
   Inflammable creatures receive 1d6+2 wounds at the strength of the wielder
while flammable creatures receive 2d6+4 wounds at the strength of the
wielder. 
Flammable objects struck by the swordof cleansing flame will be set aflame.
   The sword of cleansing flame has great power against Daemons and Chaotic
beings, causing 3d6+6 wounds at the strength of the wielder.  Also, Daemons
hit
by the sword of the cleansing flame must make an Instability test
immediately,
even those who are protected by the Daemonic Magic spell Stop Daemonic
Instability (Level 2).


Intervention
Spell Level: 4
Magic Points: 25
Range: 100 yards
Duration: 1d3 hours
Ingredients: None
   The spell grants the cleric an appeal to his patron to possess a cultist
(or
invoking Priest) during an extremely dire situation (e.g., being surrounded
by a
Chaos warband led by a Greater Daemon).  The possessed cultist assumes the
profile and abilities of a Greater Daemon.  In addition, the effected cultist
grows in
height to that of a Greater Daemon and may cause fear in creatures of less
than
10 feet in height.  Note: the possessed cultist will always follow the
dictates of
their patron deity.
   There is a high degree of risk to the possessed cultist, however, in that
the
driving force of Solkan's burning passions may consume the cultist.  The
effected
cultist must test vs. Toughness x 10, adding a +10 modifier.  Success means
that
the cultist will be exhausted and unable to perform strenuous activities for
the
followind 1d3 hours.  If failed by 20 or less points, the cultist suffers 1d6
wounds
at strength 5 from burns inflicted by the possession.  If failed by over 20
points,
the cultist suffers 2d6 wounds at strength 10.

Skills:  In addition to normal skills available to Initiates and Clerics,
followers of
Solkan may acquire one of the following skills at each level: Dodge Blow,
Follow
Trail, Immunity to Disease, Law, Orientation, Set Traps, Shadowing, Silent
Move-
Urban, Sixth Sense, Spot Traps, Strike Mighty Blow, Strike to Injure, Strike
to
Stun, Torture.  As always, skills gained must bepaid for by Experience
Points.

Trials:  Trials set by Solkan generally involve confronting and defeating
Chaos
encroachments.  Examples include destroying Chaos shrines, clearing an area
of
marauding bands of Chaos creatures, and exposing (at great personal risk,
naturally) Chaos infiltration at high levels of society.

Blessings:  Skills favored by Solkan tend to be martial in nature (such as
Dodge
Blow, Strike to Stun, etc.) or those used in pursuing quarry (.g., Follow
Trail,
Shadowing.  Tests favored by Solkan are fear, terror, poison, disease, and
other
tests made to counter the special attack forms of any servant or creature of
Chaos.  Other blessings might include a temporary increase to Weapon Skill,
Will
Power, or Cool.
