The Horned Rat - Skaven deity

The Horned Rat - Skaven deity

Description:
The Horned Rat is the feared deity of the Skaven. The mighty
Chaos god gnaws at the fabric of the universe. The Horned Rat stands for
spreading diseases and his followers are also known for looking for new
ways to intrigue and and lying. He is often portrayed as very tall Ratman
or oversized rat.

Alignment:
Chaotic.

Symbol:
The symbol of the Horned One is a triangle with one edge pointing
down and every two of its side lines overlapping each other. This symbol
is often painted upon shields and armour of Grey Seers and Skaven Warriors.
The Horned Rat's associated number is thirteen.

Area of Worship:
The Horned Rat is worshipped by all Skaven, although his
worship is not restricted solely to the Ratmen - many Humans also offer it
prayers and sacrifice. These Human followers can be found throughout the
Empire's cities, where they serve as spies for the Skaven and also as
suppliers of sacrificial victims. Many of these worshippers hope to be spared
the doom that will befall their fellows. The organisation of these cults
varies greatly. Some are headed by Skaven who lead bizarre rituals in
catacombs deep beneath the towns and cities, while others are led by Humans
who meet occasionally with the Skaven to receive instructions on how they
can best serve the Horned One. Cultists in prominent positions do their
utmost to hinder the improvement of urban areas and attempt to close down
or reduce any operations involved with the maintainance of sewers or other
public works.

Temples:
The chief temple to the Horned Rat is in the Skaven city of
Skavenblight. This ancient temple has been build on foot of a cloud-breaking
tower, which had onve been built by Dwarfs and Humans. At the moment, there
does no other temple of this Chaos god exist, but there are several shrines
dedicated to him in various Skaven strongholds, lairs and even hidden in the
sewer systems below some of the Empire's cities.

Friends and Enemies:
All civilised races like Humans, Dwarfs or Elves are
natural enemies in the eyes of the Horned Rat's followers. Of course, the
Spreader of Decay seeks to let Skaven gain control over other races and for
this reason, he allows his followers to arrange temporary pacts with traitors
or other fools of these races. Alliances entered into just to spread
disinformation, distrust and corruption.
Even towards other Chaos gods the cult of the Horned Rat is hostile, but
there are indications about a certain sympathy towards followers of Nurgle
who aren't in the way.

Holy Days:
There is only one holy day for the cult of the Horned Rat, the day
of the Horned One's Incarnation during Vermintide.

Cult Requirements:
Non-Skaven followers must have finished at least one
military or sorcerous career to be accepted by other cult members (and not to
end up as sacrificial giving to the Spreader of Decay immediately).

Strictures:
Initiates and Clerics of the Horned Rat must abid by the following
strictures:

-Sympathize under all circumstances with the aims of the Skaven,
-Never refuse to obeye an order from the Skaven Council of Thirteen,
-Do anything possible to harm civilisation,
-Never doubt the superiority of the Skaven race,
-Never reveal any information about the cult's true purposes to people who
are not a cult member.

Spell Use:
Followers of the Horned Rat who are not blessed with the ability
to transform warpstone to magical energy do not regenerate Magic Points,
even if they followed spellcaster careers before.

Clerics of the Horned Rat as well as the Grey Seers are able to use all Battle
Magic spells.
There is one spell only available for Clerics of the Horned Rat:

Summon Pox Bearers
Spell Level: 3
Magic Points: 4 + number of pox bearers (minimum of 10)
Range: 100 yards per level
Duration: 1 hour per level
Ingredients: The heart of a Rat Catcher
Spell Effects: This spell must be cast at least 6 feet beneath ground (like
in a sewer system or Skaven tunnel) or fail automatically. The Cleric
summons 2D10 creatures which carry the Red Pox disease. The creatures
usually will be rats of any size, but the GM may choose any species he
sees fit. The creatures appear within a number (Level of caster D100) of
yards away from the caster out of nothing. The creatures move and attack
as a Swarm. The caster is allowed to direct the swarm initially into one
direction. The swarm then attacks the first living creature in sight and
range or otherwise do nothing (except waiting for someone to be seen in
this direction) until unsummoned or otherwise disappearing.
Living creatures whose S or T is reduced to zero or below because of an
infection caused by those carriers collapses and dies.

Skills:
In addition to the skills normally available to Initiates and Clerics,
priests of the Horned Rat gain Seduction at Level 1. They have to pay for
this skill the normal amount of 100 EP.

Trials:
Trials set to followers of te Horned Rat normally include finding a
specific piece of warpstone, killing a certain enemy, betraying  an ally or
infiltrating a civilised society. In rare cases, trials may include building
a new tunnel leading to a certain place or examine and prepare some city's
sewer system for an invasion or similar action.

Blessings:
A well known blessing for Skaven followers is gaining the ability
to transform warpstone into magical energy (Magic Points). Other blessings may
be a bonus to a specific Bluff test. Favoured skills for followers of the
Spreader of Decay are Orientation (underground only), Immunity to Disease and
Silent Move Urban.
