From: Psychedelic Goblin <PS4CC@merkland.rgu.ac.uk>
To: wfrp@gojira.monsta.com
Subject: WFRP: new god: Morngrim

MORNGRIM dwarven God of War

Description: Morngrim represents the ideals of dwarven conflict, and 
unlike the human god Ulric, he is no berserker. Morngrim is the stone 
of steel who stands strong against all enemies and fells them with 
decisive blows. he represents resilience and stubborn determination, 
along with the dwarven tactics and technology of war. He appears as 
a dwarf of average height but brutally broad, with flesh of stone and 
eyes of steel, clad in plate armour and wielding an axe and huge 
shield.

Alignment: Neutral

Symbol: The symbol of Morngrim is a clenched fist of stone. this 
design is worn as a carved pendant, by his clerics. They wear flint 
grey robes with crimson hoods. His symbol is engraved on and armour 
they wear.

Area of Worship: Morngrim is worshipped by dwarves throughout the Old 
World, but primarily those in the ancient dwarfholds.

Temples: Every dwarfhold in the Old World has a temple dedicated to 
Morngrim. Most dwarven settlements have shrines.

Friends and Enemies: The cult is on friendly terms with the dwarven 
pantheon. It has little to do with others but is closest to Myrmidia. 
The cult is very hostile to the natural enemies of dwarves and chaos 
dwarves.

Holy Days: The holy days of Morngrim commemorate major battles.

Cult Req: Initiates and clerics of Morngrim must have followed at 
least one military career (including sapper, artillerist etc) and 
will continue to serve during their clerical career. Before 
progressing each level they must enter and complete another military 
career. Thus, a typical career path might be Tunnel 
Fighter-Initiate-Mercenary-Cleric 1-Merc Sgt-Cleric 2-Merc 
capt-Cleric 3-Templar-Cleric 4.

Strictures: All initiates and clerics of Morngrim must adhere by the 
following strictures:
- Never surrender to the goblins or their kin
- Never give up in the face of adversity
- Never suffer a chaos dwarf to live
- Never compromise your honour

Spell Use: Clerics of Morngrim may use any Petty or Battle Magic 
spells. They may also use the Elemental spell Assault of Stones.

Skills: Initiates and clerics of Morngrim may select one of the 
folowing skills whenever they advance a level. The standard cost of 
100xp must still be paid. The skills are: Disarm, Dodge Blow,
SW (2-Handed, Flail, Thrown, Firearms, Polearm), Strike Mighty Blow, 
Strike to Injure, Strike to Stun

Trials: Trials set by Morngrim are always of a military nature, and 
often involve the annihilation of chaos dwarves, and the retaking of 
fallen dwarfholds.

Blessings: Skills favoured by Morngrim include those listed above. 
Favoured tests include Faer and Terror. A blessing might take the 
form of a Toughness or WS increase.
