
*OBSCURAS - Master of Darkness, Lord of the Shadows

>Description:
 Obscuras is the half-brother of Alluminas.  Originally allied to law, 
he became jealous of Alluminas' wondrous light and claimed the realm 
of darkness for himself.
 When dedicated Obscuras cultists die, their shadow becomes fixed as 
it was at the moment of death, leaves their body and heads straight 
for Obscuras' shadow realm - a place of total blackness, but where 
those blessed to come can 'see' perfectly.

>Symbol:
 Obscuras appears as a tall, dark haired man clad in black, who 
somehow seems to "radiate" darkness, and also takes the form of a 
bat.  His followers wear black in rituals and his symbol is an 
eclipsed Morrslieb.

>Alignment:
 Chaotic, but will tolerate Evil.

>Area of Worship:
 Obscuras has secret cults throughout the old world, and rituals 
always take place in near or total darkness.  He is followed by those 
necromancers who do not follow Khaine, and with others who work 
mainly in the shadows (eg. footpads).  Dedicated cultists are 
admitted to the "brotherhood of the shadow" which shelters and works 
with fellow cultists travelling from other areas.

>Temples:
 Being outlawed, Obscuras has no formal temples.  His worshippers 
operate temporary shrines that can be quickly dismantled in an 
emergency.

>Friends and Enemies:
 Obscuras severely dislikes the gods of law, but reserves the majority 
of his hatred for Alluminas.  He maintains friendly relations with 
the Horned Rat and tends to ignore all other gods (including the 
other chaos gods) unless some scheme of theirs piques his interest.

>Holy days:
 Holy days of Obscuras are generally when Morrslieb is new, as well as 
any and all times when an eclipse of the sun or either moon occurs.  
Another day held sacred is the winter solstice, when the Old World 
day is at its' shortest.

>Cult Requirements:
 Obscuras welcomes all who wish to turn to the shadow.

>Strictures:
 - Hunt down and destroy all followers of law, and especially of 
Alluminas.
 - Never kill a creature of darkness (eg. a bat) unless in self 
defence.
 - Sympathise with the Skaven and their aims.
 - Extinguish the lights that burn in the temples of Ulric whenever 
possible.
 - Extinguish all lights unless this would make the cultist unable to 
see.

>Spell Use:
 Obscuras grants all petty, illusion and battle spells (except those 
that produce light), as well as allowing Necromancers who turn to him 
to keep and expand on their necromantic abilities.  In particular, 
the level 4 spell "Illusion of Darkness" may be learned and used from 
level one onwards and the following special spells are available:

  >Night Sight
  Petty, 2 MP, personal range, effects last until next sunrise
  This spell grants to the character the ability to see in the dark 
without light, as for Night Vision, for the period of effect.

  >Extinguish Light
  Level 1, 3 MP, 12 yds. range, effects last until light is relit
  This spell will extinguish a single light source within 
12 yds. of the caster, which will flicker a moment before being put 
out.  Non-magical lights are extinguished automatically, but magical 
lights require a WP test to be made.  Note that magical lights do NOT 
include normal lights started by magical means.

  >Manipulate Shadow (based on a spell written by Paul Keenan)
  Level 1, 2 MP, range: touch (or self), lasts until the next sunrise
  This has the effect of changing the shadow of the victim (who gets 
a WP save only if they notice being touched - an I test) into that of 
another humanoid creature of similar size (caster's whim). This may 
not seem particulary devastating, but to a suspiscious person / 
persons, it could have the effect of making them think the person is 
something else in disguise! (eg, a human with an ork shadow or a 
Chaos Warrior's shadow or a Daemonette's shadow!). The caster may 
even wish to make the victim have no shadow at all!
  To work, the spell requires something from the victim's body (hair, 
etc) and something from the body of the creature whose shadow the 
caster will imitate.

  >Cloak of Darkness
  Level 2, 8 MP, personal range, 1D6x10 turns duration
  This spell will work only during the hours of darkness (in the 
open) or in darkened areas, and cloaks the caster in an obscuring 
gloom.  The caster sees normally out of the cloak, but viewers have 
difficulty looking into it.  If confers a + or - 20 modifier to all 
hide, etc. tests in favour of the caster.

  >ShadowBolt
  Level 2, 6 MP, 48 yds range, instantaneous
  This spell is Obscuras' answer to the fireball and Alluminas' Wrath 
of the Light.  It allows the caster to throw the ShadowBolt, a 
razor-sharp bolt of dark energy, at a target within 48 yds.  The 
ShadowBolt always hits and counts as a magical missile, causing D10 
damage at a strength of 6.  Non-magical armour is ignored.

  >Summon Shadow
  Level 3, 14 MP, personal range, 1+ hours duration
  This spell summons a shadow from Obscuras' shadow realm to appear 
within 6 yds. of the caster, who must control the shadow (WP test, 
additional MPs may be spent to aid the test) if it is not to 
disappear again immediately.  If controlled, it will obey the caster 
for the spells duration befre returning to the shadow realm.
  The shadow is subject to instablility and has the same abilities 
and restrictions as a ghost with regard to physical objects.  As 
such, they are usually used for scouting duties and such, reporting 
their findings back to the caster.

>Skills:
 One of the Night Vision and Astronomy skills may be bought at each 
level.

>Trials:
 Protect a group of creatures of darkness (eg. prevent a rural 
community from harming or moving some bats in a temple roof), destroy 
a local cult of Alluminas, extinguish the light in the temple of the 
White Wolf in Middenheim, etc.

>Blessings:
 Night Vision and Astronomy are favoured skills and favoured tests include all 
hide, shadow, etc. tests in darkness or semi-darkness.  Obscuras may 
also confer the magical disability Nocturnal Lifestyle, and a 
one-shot use of the "Illusion of Darkness" spell is also relatively 
common.

*SHADOWPHYTES

 M WS BS S T W  I  A Dex Ld Int Cl WP Fel
 6 90 -  6 7 50 80 6  -  80 80  80 80  -

 Also known as 'shadow demons', that name is quite accurate.  
Shadowphytes are demons of Obscuras with most of the normal demonic 
abilities, and the most dedicated of Obscuras' cultists hope to join 
the ranks of the Shadowphytes upon their deaths.  Shadowphytes appear 
as black shadowy humanoids whose features are only barely visible 
through the inner darkness they radiate.  They cannot fly but possess 
the ability to melt into the shadows in one place and reappear in the 
shadows somewhere else within their line of sight.

 They cannot be harmed by non-magical weapons, but suffer a loss of 
half their characteristics when not shrouded in full or 
semi-darkness.  They are utterly destroyed if hit by Alluminas' pure 
light and Alluminas' LightBall and Hand of Light spells cause double 
damage to a ShadowPhyte.  They can cause no physical wounding, but 
cause damage through their touch, which has the same strength robbing 
property as that of a wraith, and Shadowphytes can throw up to one 
ShadowBolt per round without need to formally cast the spell.  Any 
character slain by a Shadowphyte is condemned to eternal torment in 
Obscuras' shadow realm, where his shadow will leave his body for 
immediately.

 Shadowphytes are immune to all psycholgy except that caused by a 
god, but are subject to instability when not shrouded in full or 
semi-darkness.  Shadowphytes cause terror in creatures in creatures 
under 10 feet tall.

  TTFN.
  Ian Ward
  aca95idw@sheffield.ac.uk

