From: "G.G.Lepper" <ZZA95GGL@sheffield.ac.uk>
To: wfrp@gojira.monsta.com
Subject: WFRP: Even More Gnome Stuff

  The final, and most mysterious deity is Randandill.  Gnome society 
is rich in folklore and stories.  Usually it involve Ringil 
outwitting someone, or rescuing wayward Gandangil.  However, in many 
stories, Ringil is accompanied by a mysterious Raven.  This Raven 
is believed to be Randandill, the cynical brother of Ringil.  It was 
believed that Randandill, of all the gods, sought out the "truth", 
the secrets that lie behind reality and perceptions-and discovered 
it.  However, the knowledge altered his nature, and now the god 
straddles deceit and honesty, light and shadow, the truth and 
deception.
  Randandill embodies cynicism and a world wearyness.  Many Gnomes, 
jaded of the world, turn to his worship, and involve themselves in 
the mysteries of this cult.

Alignment: Neutral
Symbol:  None for certain, but all temples and ceremonial robes bear 
a cross with all legs the same length: a "+".
Area of Worship:  Worshipped in Bleakbearing, and in small groups 
amongst Gnome society.  Gaining in popularity in Bretonnia.
Temples:  The only major temple is in Bleakbearing.  In most shrines 
of Ringil, one of the two adjoining shrines is dedicated to 
Randandill.
Friends and Enemies:  All human cults are fairly ignorant of this 
cult, perceiving it as a cult to Ringil's brother, one who represents 
old age (of course, this is wrong-but many facts about Randandill are 
mysteriously obscured outside of Gnome culture).
Holy Days:  One holy day, secretive, celebrated in Bleakbearing, when 
Randandill allegedly saved it from a rampaging army of goblinoids.  
Many local Gnome communities have local holidays, when enemies were 
turned back by illusions and deception.
Cult Requirements:  Must be an adult Gnome, capable of keeping a 
secret, and intensely curious about the nature of things.  
Strictures:  
  1)  Never act openly against an opponent
  2)  Don't reveal the nature of the Cult to non Gnomes, and don't 
reveal Cult secrets even to Gnomes
  3)  Always pursue knowledge
  4)  Protect Gnome society
  5)  Never kill a raven
  6)  Never act openly, conceal all your actions, and conceal your 
concealment-none must know you're plotting or seeking knowledge.
Spell Use:  Clerics of Randandill may use all Petty spells, 
Illusionist spells, and the Elementalist Level Three Spell: Become 
Ethereal, and a few cult spells.  All illusionist spells only cost 
the Gnome half the magic point cost of the spell.
Skills:  They must buy one of the following per level:  Acting, 
Charm Animal Raven, Hypnotise, and Ventriloquism.
Trials:  The acquisition of an ancient tome, the defense of a Gnome 
community, a deception that provides Gnomes safety from the outside 
world (example, tricking a nobleman in to leaving the Gnome 
community alone).
Blessings:
  Blather, Spot Trap, Palm Object, Charm Animal-Raven, Conceal Urban 
or Rural, Hypnotise, Charm, Ventriloquism, and favored tests are 
Observe, and Bluff.
Career Exits:  The may become Diplomats, Gnomic Loremasters, Spy, or 
any thieving career.

Spells:
  Wisdom
  Petty Magic
  Range: Personal
  Spell Cost: 1
  Duration: One turn
  Ingredients:  Powdered glass
  Allows the Gnome to sense when they are being watched.  May be 
extended each turn at the expense of another point.  They have a 
general sense of the watcher, and the degree of interest the viewer 
has on the Gnome.
  
  Speak to Raven
  Level 1
  Magic Points: 2 per turn
  Range: 10 yards
  Duration: 1 turn +
  Ingredients:  Raven feather
  The Gnomic cleric, while concentrating on any single raven in the 
area, may telepathically communicate with it on a rudimentary level.  
May ask the raven what it has seen, where it has been, what is 
around, or how far to a location, and may, at the expense on two 
additional points, get the raven to carry out a single task, which it 
is then obliged to fulfill.  This task must not senselessly endanger 
the ravens life.  If the raven dies under the influence of this 
spell, the cleric loses all Clerical spell casting abilities until 
they fulfil their penance.
  
  Contact Raven Familiar
  Spell Level Two
  Magic Points: Four to cast
  Range: Personal
  Duration: Permanent
  Ingredients:  gold jewelry, valued at least 100GCs.
  This will summon a Raven Familiar, who will act like the Raven 
Familiar for the Old Faith.  A servant of Randandill, the Raven may 
be revoked at the breaking of any stricture by the GM, and this spell 
may not be cast until penance is done.  The familar gives the skills 
of Excellent Vision and Divination to the Cleric, as well as a +10 
bonus to Initiative as long as the spectral raven is within 10 yards. 
In all other aspects the rules for this raven are the same as for 
familiars of the Old Faith, with the exception that the Raven is 
allowed to make itself visible, withing 10 yards, and may go beyond 
10 yards, to a distance in yards equal to the Clerics Will Power, for 
a duration of rounds equal to the Cleric's Will Power.  However, when 
the Raven goes beyond ten yards, the bonus skills and Initiative are 
lost until the Raven returns.  If the Raven Familiar is killed, the 
Cleric loses 1d6 Wounds, 1 toughness, 1 fate point permanently, and 
may no longer acquire a Raven familiar, and must do penance to 
continue in their Clerical studies.

  Eyes of the Raven
  Spell Level 3
  Magic Points: 4 per round
  Duration: one round plus
  Ingredients:  a small gem, worth at least 20 GCs
  If the caster meditates, and then casts this spell, they may direct 
their Raven Familiar to fly in any direction, and as long as the 
Cleric meditates and spends MP, may direct the Raven, and see through 
it's eyes.  If the Raven is killed, the normal effects happen, and 
the Cleric loses 1d10 off of WP, Int, and Cl permanently from the 
shock.  When the spell is ended, the Cleric awakens from the 
meditation, and the Raven will return in the number of turns it took 
for it to fly to it's destination.

  Manifest in Familiar
  Spell Level: Four
  Magic Points: 10 + 2 per turn
  Range: personal
  Duration: 1 turn or more
  Ingredients:  small ebony raven figurine (worth about 20 GCs, freq: 
rare).
  This allows the Cleric to shapechange and occupy the form and spirit 
of the Raven Familiar.  The Cleric has all the Physical stats of the 
Raven, and the Clerics own Mental Stats.  The Cleric may then fly 
about without anyone noticing.  The Cleric may make the Raven appear, 
but then it is possible to be attacked  with non magic weaponry. 
Otherwise the Raven/Cleric is ethereal.  No spells may be cast.  The Cleric 
may then fly somewhere, land, and end the spell, and be in a new location 
after having scouted out the area.  If the spell ends while in 
flight, the Cleric takes falling damage from the relevant height.  If 
the Raven form is killed (T=1 W=1 !!!), then the Cleric is 
irrevocable killed, and the Raven Familiar is destroyed, and the 
mutilated Clerice body falls from the heavens or trees, or wherever 
it's perched.  The GM should make sure the player knows how much time 
is left each turn.  But if the fool Cleric tries to cross great 
bodies of water, or tall mountains, they should face the 
consequences.
  If all goes well, at the end of the spell, the Raven Familar 
manifest itself as the Cleric emerges from the Raven's body.  Doing this 
publicly breaks cult strictures.
 

  

  Cheers!

         Rev. Garett Lepper
         zza95ggl@sheffield.ac.uk

"Before bed, I prefer to bludgeon myself to sleep."
  -DM, Bob 3:16
