Rhya - Goddess of Nature, Fertility, Childbirth, and Family

Description:
Rhya is the wife of Taal, mother of Manann and Verena.  Those
who worship her view Rhya as the goddess of nature, fertility, childbirth and
the family.  Others, outside the cult, view Rhya as either a lesser aspect of
the Mother-Goddess or a deity who is much diminished so that her worship is
incorporated with and overshadowed by Taal.  Depicted as a loving mother
(and, at times, a pregnant one), Rhya represents the fertility and bounty of
the earth and mothers everywhere.

To scholars of theological studies, Rhya represents a deity in decline.
As such, her exact role in the scheme of divine matters is the subject of
much debate.  Is she a deity in her own right?  Or, a lesser aspect of the
Mother dealing with the bearing of children and sowing a crop in the fertile
earth?  Maybe, she is only the wife of Taal and therefore should be
incorporated into his worship.  Naturally, the cult is inclined to frown upon
those diminishing their deity.

Alignment:
Neutral.

Symbol:
Rhya's symbols are an acorn, a sheath of wheat, a babe in a mother's
arms, or a hearth.  Her Initiates and Clerics wear simple, green woolen robes
with one or more of these symbols sewn into the hems, carved into their
staffs, or on the straps of their satchels containing healing herbs.

Area of Worship:
Rhya is chiefly worshipped in the small farming villages
that are located on the outskirts of cities and large towns throughout the
Old World (to those involved with animal husbandry, Rhya is known as Dyrath,
the Fertility Goddess).  Also popular with pregnant women and young mothers.

Temples:
The cult is widespread with individual temples (few as they are)
and shrines autonomous in all matters.  Only during the summer solstice
(Sonnstill) do a number of priest gather in a place chosen by Rhya.  There is
no seat for the cult as most of the priests are itinerants, traveling from
village to village, shrine to shrine.  Most farming villages are unable to
support a temple dedicated to Rhya.  Instead, a small, simple shrine is
usually built and maintained between the village and the fields.  In homes,
especially isolated homesteads, the hearth would be set aside to honor Rhya.

Cairns are also built in the fields so that Rhya may bless their labor.

Friends and Enemies:
The cult of Rhya is friendly with most major religions
of the Old World, especiallt those of Taal, Manaan, and the Old Faith.  The
cult also has reciprocal respect towards the Elder Races (Dwarven, Halfling,
and Elven) cults.  Additionally, they are tolerant but critical of Ranald
cult.

Holy Days:
Rhya's main festive days are the Spring and Autumn Equinoxes as
they are associated with the planting and harvesting of crops.  Minor days
include 2 Jahrdrung (Day of Pruning), 9 Sommerzeit (Harvest of Spring
Fruits), and family birthdays.

Cult Requirements:
There are no explicit requirements for acceptance into
the cult; the cult is theoretically open to all petitioners, including the
Elder Races (especially Halflings).

Strictures:
Followers of Rhya must abide by the following strictures:

-Reverence for the bounty of the earth, the miracle of life, and the honor
of motherhood.
-Respect and honor for family and kin.
-Defend family and the bounty of the earth from any who would destroy,
defile, and corrupt them.
-Aid any kin less fortunate, especially the elderly.

Spell Use:
Clerics of Rhya may use all Petty Magic, Battle Magic, and
Elemental Magic spells which are protective or defensive in nature (e.g.,
Aura of Resistance, Protection from Rain).  They are prohibited from using
any offensive or harm causing spells.
In addition, the following spells may be used by Clerics of Rhya:

Ease Pain
Spell Level: Petty
Magic Points: 2
Range: Touch
Duration: Instantaneous
Ingredients: Soft cloth or feather
This spell allows the caster the ability to ease the pain experienced by
an individual.  Usually it's used to ease the pain of childbirth and other
minor injuries which does not normally result in a loss of Wounds.  However,
this spell can be used to lessen the effects of any first level spells which
cause injury (such as fireball).  If cast on the victim within 10 rounds of
injury, the wounds inflicted are reduced by 1, even if the character is
seriously wounded.

Ward Vegetation
Spell Level: 2
Magic Points: 5 per 125 Cubic Yards
Range: Touch
Duration: 1d3 days
Ingredients: None
The cleric is granted the power to protect a large area of vegetation (and
the soil within which they are rooted) from blight and other infestations.
In addition, this spell can slow any seepage of contamination from Chaos
substances such as Warpstone and Warpdust.

The volume to be warded must be marked off by holy symbols inscribed onto
the barks of trees and stems of smaller plants.  Once invoked, the inscribed
symbols disappear from normal view and can only be perceived by those with
the Magical Sense skill.

Skills:
In addition to skills normally available to them, Clerics of Rhya
may choose one extra skill at each level, from the following list: Animal
Care, Cure Disease, Heal Wounds, Herb Lore, Identify Plant, Immunity to
Disease, and Manufacture Drugs (herbal base only).  As always, skills gained
must be paid for with Experience Points.

Trials:
Trials set by Rhya typically involve delivering produce to blight
ravaged areas and successfully working those fields to recover its fertility
or protecting isolated homesteads in bandit (or other foul being) infested
areas.

Blessings:
Skills favored by Rhya include all curative skills (such as Cure
Disease, Heal Wounds, or Herb Lore) and some medicinal (Manufacture Drugs
with herbal bases).
