Realms of Divine Magick Sampler
Extracts from the Realms of Divine Magick manuscript
by Ken Rolston (kenrolston@aol.com)


The following material remains the copyright of the author and has kindly been
provided by the author for the benefit of the WFRP list members who wish to
write their own material to be compatible with the forthcoming Realms of Divine
Magick tome.



Chapter 2b: Skills________


Clerical Skills______________________________________

The following skills are often learned through clerical careers, but may be
learned through various other careers, or may be learned as non-career
skills. (Those clerical skills that may not be learned as non-career skills
are indicated in the skill descriptions below.)

Associated Skill Characteristic and Skill Rating: After the title of each
skill is listed the skill's associated characteristic. 

Each skill has a skill rating which is equal to the score of the character's 
associated characteristic score for that skill. Skill ratings may be used in
two ways: 1. to test against in determining success or failure in the use of
the skill, and 2. as a general indication of the character's competence in
the skill. Gamemasters should use these competence guidelines to judge
whether easy tasks might deserve a bonus for those of above-average
competence, or whether difficult tasks might receive penalties for those of
below average competence.

Use the following guidelines to judge a character's competence with a skill:

Skill Rating                      Skill Guideline                            

01-25: Below average for a person professing the skill, but more
knowledgeable and adept than someone completely ignorant of the skill. May be
a beginner, a dilettante, or a clod. Capable of competent work, but when
hurried or careless, even if successful may produce at only a barely passable
or substandard level.
026-50: Average for a person professing the skill. Fairly knowledgeable --
doesn't embarrass himself in bull discussions or boasting matches -- but
unfamiliar with eccentric, sophisticated, or innovative aspects of the skill.
Capable of performing most common tasks effectively, given time, and making
allowances for mistakes. Seldom brilliant, but occasionally clever or notably
effective.
51-75: Above average knowledge and competence. Often recognized by neighbors
and colleagues as an expert. Very rarely makes serious mistakes with common
tasks, and may be capable of occasional brilliance.
76-00: Superhuman or heroic ability. Likely to have a substantial reputation.
Difficult tasks are performed with ease. Impossible tasks may be attempted
with enthusiasm.

Example #1: Uschi, a priestess of Shallya, has the cult doctrine skill. The
associated characteristic for cult doctrine is Intelligence (Int). Uschi has
an Int score of 45. Uschi's skill rating for cult doctrine is 45.
Testing for Success with the Skill: Uschi's companions attack a manticore.
The Shallya cult prohibits killing, even in self-defense. But... can she kill
to protect the lives of others? Can Uschi come to the aid of her companions?
Uschi consults her cult doctrine skill. The dice are rolled -- 67 --
indicating that Uschi doesn't know, or doesn't remember, whether killing
might be justified in this case. (If the dice has rolled 45 or lower, Uschi
might have remembered that some cult scholars hold that taking one life to
save several others may be justified in certain circumstances. Whether these
are those ertain circumstnaces, Uschi must decide for herself.)

Example #2: Alexis, a priest of Ulric, has the cult doctrine skill, too, but
has an Int of 70.
General Indication of Competence: Alexis is taken captive by a goblin raiding
band and tortured to force him to reveal the details of a border fort's
defenses. The Ulric cult prohibits its initiates and priests from the use of
trickery or deceit, but exaggerating the fort's strengths, particularly since
the goblins know Alexis is a priest of Ulric and prohibited from lying, might
discourage the goblins from attacking the defenseless fort and its citizens.
With a skill rating of 70, Alexis is wise and experienced in interpreting
cult doctrine, and he would realize that, though exaggerating the fort's
strength is dishonest and a sin by cult standards, it is nonetheless a good
thing to do in these circumstances, even though it means that Alexis must
make a minor penance for breaking the cult's rules.

Resist Magic (Will Power)
Beings with this skill receive a +20 bonus to tests vs. WP to resist magick
effects.

Sense Magic (Intelligence)
Active magickal effects cause perceptable disturbances in the aethyr. Use of
this skill reveals 1. the presence of active magickal effects within ten
yards [note change from "BMP yards"] and 2. the direction from the character
to the magickal effects.
Unskilled characters have a Default Rating of 5% with this skill.
Inactive Magickal Effects (for example, inactive divine artifacts and sacred
tokens) cannot be perceived with this skill. Thus, one cannot identify a
being or object as being capable of producing magickal effects with this
skill. (See Active and Inactive Magickal Effects" in Terms above.)
Background: Aethyrial disturbances accompanying magickal effects are
perceiveable by the Spirit, though untrained individuals cannot effectively
interpret the features of the sensations or distinguish the source of the
emanations.
GM Guidelines: Use the following guidelines for modifiers to tests to sense
exceptionally powerful divine magickal sources:
Divine Artifacts (eg, magickal devices associated with greater and lesser
divine powers) -- +20 bonus. 
GM Note: Sense Magic replaces the original WFRP skills Magical Sense and
Magical Awareness.

Meditation (Cool)
Beings with this skill are able to enter a dream-trance state in which they
can swiftly replenish their reservoirs of magick potential.
The character remains in the meditation trance for 2 hours, then tests
against Cool.
If the test is successful, the being recovers 100% of his Basic Magic
Potential (ie, he is restored to full BMP).
If the test fails by 1-29 points, the being recovers to at least 50% of his
Basic Magic Potential. If he is already at 50% of his BMP or better, there is
no further effect.
If the test fails by 30 points or more, the being recovers no magic points.
In addition, if 96-00 is rolled, 1 Insanity Point is gained.
While in a mediation trance, a being is unaware of its surroundings and
cannot stir if attacked or otherwise disturbed for the duration of the 2-hour
trance. They are completely helpless during the trance duration (treat as
prone in combat), and cannot move, speak, or otherwise respond to other
beings or events.

Cult Doctrine (Intelligence)
All cultists are expected to know the basic beliefs and responsibilities of a
cult member. However, Initiates, Priests, Druids, and Fanatics are expected
to understand and memorize details of religious ceremony, appropriate garb,
holy days, special observances, honored and prohibited behavior, and so
forth, and to be able to teach these details to interested cultists and
supplicants.
GM Guidelines: An initiate should at least have memorized the cult
requirements and strictures as described in Cult Descriptions. Priests should
be able to describe the cult symbols, typical ceremonies and other religious
observances, list and explain the significance of the holy days celebrated by
the cult, and and describe the traditional layouts of cult shrines and
temples.

In religious arguments, characters should test vs. Cult Doctrine.  The
highest successful Cult Doctrine score indicates the character whose argument
is most persuasive. (It may, of course, be completely heretical as cult
doctrine, but the other characters, unable to refute his arguments, will
yield to his superior logic.)

Skill Rating                      Skill Guideline                            

01-25: Knows where the local shrine is and how to behave there. Knows what
behavior is absolutely prohibited by the cult. Knows the cult holy days.
Recognizes initiates and priests of own cult, and knows cult's worst enemies
and best friends.
026-50: General knowledge of cult ceremony, history, and philosophy. Knows
local shrines and temples; has knowledge of famous shrines in distant lands.
Recognizes initiates and priests of most Old World cults. Knows benefits and
responsibilities of advanced clercial careers within cult. Appreciates
obvious similarities and differences in major Old World cult doctrines.
51-75: Detailed knowledge of cult ceremony, history, and philosophy.
Accounted wise in everyday affairs and on larger philosophical issues.
General knowledge of major Old World cults, even outlawed cults.
76-00: Saintly comprehension of cult doctrine. Judgements are often inspired
by divine insights. Widely quoted and praised for his wisdom. Actions are
taken as examples for the instruction of the devout.

Invoke Prayer (Intelligence)
There are specific invocation skills for each Mastery Level of the Initiate
and Priest careers. Characters can only obtain these skills by entering the
appropriate career, and by learning the skill as all other skills are
learned.

Ceremony (Intelligence)
Once a day the cleric may conduct a ceremony dedicated to his divine patron.
The ceremony must take place on sacred ground, and all cultists to benefit
from the ceremony must stand on sacred ground. The Cleric tests vs. Int. If
the Int test is successful, all followers (including the cleric) within the
effect of the ceremony test vs. WP. A successful WP test means the cultist
regains 1d6+3 MP. A failed test means the cultist receives 1 MP. If the
cleric's Int test fails, the cleric has failed to please his divine patron;
no MP are regained, and the discouraged cleric is at a -10 WP penalty for the
following 24 hours.

Retreat (Cool)
The cleric retreats into personal prayer and devotions in a shrine or on
other sacred ground for 24 hours. At the end of this time the cleric is
refreshed and renewed in spirit, and he regains all expended MP up to his
full BMP score. Test vs. Cool. If successful, also receive a cult blessing (a
one-time-use +10 bonus with any skill test favored by the cult).

Bind Wound (Intelligence)
This is a first aid skill for emergency treatment of victims of sccidents,
natural disasters, and battlefield wounds, including stopping bleeding,
bandaging open-wounds, and immobilizing broken bones. Successful use of this
skill stops continuing wound losses resulting from Critical Hit Table results
and stabilizes the victim's condition. Specifically stops terminal bleeding.
Does not restore wounds, does not repair injuries or remove penalites
resulting from injuries.

True Sight (WP)
At the cost of one MP, a character is warned of impending Danger, Betrayal,
Friendship, and Good Fortune. The use of the skill may be triggered
voluntarily when a character uses the divination skill, or it may be
triggered involuntarily at the GM's discretion as a sign of the divine
patron's will. 
Test vs. the character's WP. If the test is successful, the character
receives a specific image of an impending event. If the test is failed, the
character receives vague premonitions of portentious events ahead.


Divine Notes Part Three

Cult Membership and Laymen's Benefits__

Becoming a Layman
Rule Summary: The cost of becoming a layman of a cult is 100 EPs and an
offering of 20GC per career completed, or, if no careers have been completed,
an offering of 3 GC.

Cult Member Benefits
Laymen, Initiates, and Priests in good standing may expect
 the following benefits from their cult membership:
- Members of a cult may receive the renewing of spiritual energy (recharging
of lost MP) though the use of the ceremony skill by a cult cleric (
see "Ceremony" on page ??).
- Food and shelter for traveling cult members may be found at a cult shrine
or temple at a nominal fee (2 shillings) or for labor. The accommodations and
fare are typically modest (equivalent of lodging in an decent inn's common
room), and often frequented by lower classes persons forced to travel on
personal business, but clean and fairly safe nonetheless. More-fortunate
cultists are expected to volunteer a little extra in payment to defray the
costs of their less-fortunate cult bret
hren. 
- Cult members may receive medical care and healing prayers where available.
The qual
ity of medical care available varies greatly.
- Cult members who perform an extraordinary service for the cult may receive
a fate point as a blessing of the divine patron. This personal recognition of
ea cult member by a god is extremely rare, and granted only for exceptional
services.
- Cult members may receive training in skills favored by the cult at one-half
the normal ep cost, and even if the skill to be learned is outside the cult
member's current career, the skill may be learned as if it were within the
current career -- that is, without passing an Int test (see WFRP, Character
Advancement and Experie
nce, "Non-Career Skills," page 93).
- Priests and cult members of certain favored careers (eg, Templars of the
Fiery Heart of the cult of Sigmar) may receive special magickal "gifts" as a
sign of 
the deity's favor (see below).
- Other benefits for cult members may be available according to the
individual cult (see Cult Descriptions for details).

Gifts
Gifts are extraordinary abilities granted by a divine patron to priests and
some special groups of laymen including Forestors, Templars, Demagogues,
Assassins and other careers as described in individual Cult Descriptions.
These gifts are received when a character achieves a new Rank of the Priest
Career or when he enters one of the careers specially favored by his cult.
These gifts are kept as long as the character remains a cleric or a favored
lay member of his cult in good standing. Each cult has its own gifts. For a
list of gifts granted by each cult to clerics and favored laymen, see Cult
Descriptions.

Cult Member Obligations
1. OBSERVE CULT DEVOTIONS
2. SEEK JUDGEMENT ON ORDAINED CULT HOLY DAYS
3. RESPECT AND DEFEND CULT PRINCIPLES AND DOCTRINES
4. RESPECT AND DEFEND CULT INITIATES AND PRIESTS (AND OTHER ESPECIALLY
FAVORED CULT LAYMEN LIKE TEMPLARS, DEMAGOGUES, ETC.)
5. RESPECT AND DEFEND SACRED GROUND, SHRINES, AND TEMPLES
6. HONOR THE CONDITIONS OF ANY TERRIBLE OATH SWORN

Devotions
Devotions are regular, daily religious observances required by one's cult.
All cult members must make an offering of 1 MP per day in personal
devotions. When possible, devotions must be made on sacred ground under the
guidance of a cult cleric. If not possible, one's god must be satisfied with
the circumstances, or one may be called to account on regular Judgement Day
(holy days). An occasional lapse may require a small penance. A serious lapse
may result in loss of benefits until a penance is served.

Divine Judgement, Holy Days, Blessings, and Penances
On specified cult holy days each cultist must go to a temple, shrine, or
other cult sacred ground and ask for divine judgement. Details vary from cult
to cult, but in essence the cultist privately and personally asks his divine
patron to review the cultist's recent thoughts and actions and judge whether
the cultist has been a worthy follower.
Normally a cultist who has earnestly tried to observe the doctrines and
devotions of the cult, and whose dedication to the cult is sincere, will
satisfy his god's scrutiny and will feel refreshed in spirit and strengthed
in his faith.
A character who has been especially virtuous and devoted to the cult may
receive a small blessing in token of the god's favor. (In game terms, the
blessing is in the form of a one-use 10-point bonus on the use of any
cult-favored skill.) 
A cultist who has failed in the regular observance of his devotions, or who
has failed to honor the basic cult doctrines or strictures, or who has
disgraced or offended his divine patron in some way, receives a rebuke from
his divine patron. An offending cultist is told of the nature of his fault
("You have been lax in your daily devotions." "You have offended against the
Word of Ranald in the wanton use of violence in your roguish pursuits.") and
warned to amend his ways or face banishment from the cult. If the cultist's
faults are serious, or his transgressions habitual (ie, he has received
Judgement Day rebukes in the past), he may also receive a penance (see
below). A cultist who has been given a penance by his god is denied the
benefits of his cult until the penance is completed.

Losing Cult Member Benefits
Failure to observe cult doctrines and practices may result in temporary loss
of cult benefits.
The following misdeeds automatically result in temp
orary loss of cult benefits:
- Omission of Daily Devotions: The cultist receives no cult ben
efits until regular daily devotions are once again observed.
- Failure to seek Judgement on the Appointed Cult Holy Day: The cultist
receives no cult benefits until he appears to receive Judgement on sacred
ground or in the presence of a cult cleric.

Penances
A cultist assigned a penance by his god loses all cult benefits until his
penance is completed. Penances vary according to the cult and the
circumstances and severity of the transgression.
Light Penances: Minor transgressions by otherwise dedicated cultists
 usually receive light penances. For example:
- Make a special offering of 1GC to the cult.

- Spend one full day in devotions at a shrine or temple.
- Humble yourself to cleaning the steps to the temple at the direction of
your priest.
Stern Penances: More serious offenses, or minor offe
nses repeated by already-rebuked cultists, may result in a stern penance. For
example:
- Make a s
pecial offering of 50GC to the cult.
- Place yourself at the disposal of the shrine's priest for one
 month, during which you shall feed and care for the poor and attend to their
needs.
- Deny yourself the pleasures of ale or strong spirits for one month as a
sign of your resolve to mend your ways.
-
 Make a pilgrimage to the Shrine of Sigmar in Middenheim and make an offering
of 100GC there in Sigmar's name.
Heavy Penances: Repeated serious offenses against cult doctrines and
practices may result in the levying of a heavy penance. Such heavy penances
are signs that the god has wearied of the cultist's m
isdeeds, and is doubtful of the cultist's suitability to serve the cult. For
example:
- Go forth into the Great Forest, seek out Archdruid Matham, and serve at his
bidding for one full turn of the
 seasons.
- Yield up thy robes, pens, books, and scholarship. Go into the streets of
Altdorf and live as a beggar fom the fall to the winter solstice, and learn
more of your fellow man than you have learned from your books.
- Go forth into the wilderness among the heathen orcs for the summer campaign
season. Refuse no challenge. Refuse no opportunity to test your strength at
arms and your honor in combat. Come back with your shield or on it.

Renouncing a Cult
One may renounce membership in the former cult. Such a character of course
immediately loses all benefits of that cult, and he may never join that cult
again; in addition, a minor or great curse is usually placed on such a
character. 


Divine Notes Part Four


Divine Summonings__________________

Warhammer cultists are granted by their divine patrons the power to summon
various magickal creatures and spirit beings. Cultists don't need to prepare
pentagrams or engage in contests of wills to control divine summonations --
the divine patron guarantees the summoning's willing service -- but
summonings may be more or less cooperative in fulfilling the cultist's
request for specific services according to temperment, circumstances, and
cult doctrine. The four basic varieties o
f magickal creatures and spirit beings summonable with divine magick --
numina, Khaine's Undead, elementals and daemons -- are described in the
sections that follow.
Many divine summonings are intelligent creatures with distinctive magickal
powers. As such, they require the same forethought and development as other
important non-player characters in your scenarios.

Numina _________________________________________________
Numina (singular numen; Classical Old Worlder -- "divine will" or "divine
power") are divine spirit and magickal entities summoned from the
shadowrealms to aid, protect, and counsel cult priests. The characteristics
and abilities of numina vary from cult to cult, but they all fall into four
categories:
divine counselors: ghostlike spirits, typically of deceased cultists, who may
share their experience, wisdom, and practical knowledge, but who have little
or no power to act on this plane
divine guardians: magickal creatures or ghostlike spirits which protect
cultists or sacred ground from enemies or intruders
divine servants: ghostlike spirits, typically of deceased cultists, who may
provide both counsel and magickal assistance to a cultist
divine avatars: immensely powerful divine spirits which embody the virtues
and principles of the divine patron 

Abilities and Limitations of Numina
Abilities: All numina have the following abilities, including those listed in
the specific descriptions below:
1. A magickal attack (spell, prayer, enchanted or blessed weapon, etc.) or a
weapon forged or coated with True Silver is required to hit a numen.
2. A numen's attack is magickal, and therefore may affect beings affected
only by magickal attacks.
3. Numina sense magickal emanations and recognize cult alignments of
creatures. These abilities work the same way as the petty prayer detect
magick and the third rank prayer know alignment, but numina may exercise
these abilities at will, without expending MP.
4. Numina with other magickal abilities (ie, the ability to invoke prayers or
create other special magickal effects) expend MP to produce those effects,
just like clerics, unless stated otherwise.
Limitations: All numina have the following limitations, including those
listed in the specific descriptions below:
1. Numina are subject to instability (see Rules, page ??).
2. When reduced to zero wounds, numina are unable to maintain their magickal
and substantial manifestations on this plane and must return immediately to
the shadowrealm of their divine patron.

Example of Numina

Divine Counselors__________________________________________
Divine counselors generally appear as ghostly apparitions of deceased
cultists who have served their divine patrons well in life, and who have been
chosen as spiritual guides to advise and chasten the cult's mortal followers.
Divine counselors are like ghosts in that they: 1. can pass through solid
objects without penalty, 2. cannot be wounded by non-magickal weapons and 3.
cannot cause damage to mortal beings or objects in the material plane.
However, they are unlike ghosts in that they are visible only to cultists of
the counselor's divine patron, and in that they do not cause fear in those
who gaze upon them. Divine counselors must also remain within the bounds of
the sacred ground where they were summoned, and may not move beyond those
bounds. 
Divine counselors are summoned to share the benefits of their life
experience, wisdom, and common sense with the petitioning cultist. Though
they are occasionally knowledgeable, particularly in the skills favored by
the cult, and often make useful observations and suggestions, they also seem
to take a great delight in chastizing cultists for their folly and
carelessness in adherence to cult doctrine. Like all teachers and counselors,
they vary in the quality and charm of their advice. (See summon counselor
prayer, page ??, and Staging Divine Magicks, "Hints and Guidelines for
Presenting Divine Counselors, Servants, and Avatars," page ??, for further
details on summoning divine counselors.)

Divine Counselor
M   WS   BS   S   T   W   I   A   Dx   Ld   Int  Cl   WP   Fel  MP
4   10   10   2   5  10   60  1   50   50   50   60   60    50  10
Fly as swoopers. Skills: (Own) Cult Doctrine, Cult Lore, all layman cult
skills, other skills at GM discretion. 

Example of Elementals
Elementals are magickal creatures of the elemental domains. Cultists are
granted the power to summon them directly through the divine patron or
indirectly through agreements between the divine patron and the rulers of the
elemental domains.

Abilities and Limitations of Elementals
Abilities: All elemental have the following abilities, in addition to those
listed in the specific descriptions below:
1. A magickal attack or a weapon forged or coated with True Silver is
required to hit an elemental.
2. An elemental's attack is magickal, and therefore may affect beings which
are only affected by magickal attacks.
3. Elementals sense magick emanations and perceive spirits of the living and
undead creatures. These abilities work in the same way as the petty sorcery
spells detect magick and perceive spirit, but elementals may exercise these
abilities at will, without expending MP. (The sorcerous detect magick spell
is similar to the divine petty prayer of the same name; the perceive spirit
spell permits the being to be aware of the presence and location of the
spirits of all living beings within approximately 15 yards.)
4. Elementals with other magickal abilities (ie, abilities to cast spells,
rituals, invoke prayers, or to create other magickal effects) expend MP to
produce those effects, just like sorcerors and clerics.
5. Elementals can communicate telepathically or empathically with their
summoners as long as they are within line of sight and within 10 yards of the
summoner. 
Limitations: Elemental must remain in a sustaining environment with an
adequate volume of substance associated with their elemental domain, or they
rapidly weaken, losing the ability to manifest in the Material Realm. An
elemental in complete isolation from a sustaining environment loses 1
Strength point for each round it is isolated. When its Strength is reduced to
zero, its elemental consciousness fails, its elemental substance dissipates,
and it disappears. If returned to its sustaining environment, lost Strength
returns at 1 point per round.
Sustaining environments for each of the elemental domains are:
Earth: ground, soil, stone
Air: air 
Fire: flammable substances 
Water: a substantial body of water
When reduced to zero wounds, elemental sprites lose their substantial
manifestations and disappear from the material world. They do not, however,
"die" in a sense that mortals understand. They retain their consciousness and
memories of events, though less intelligent sprites remember hardly more than
an instinctive positive or negative feeling for familiar persons, locations,
and events.
Other Abilities and Limitations: Elementals may also have other abilities and
limitations at the GM's discretion. If an ability or limitation is not
explicitly listed here or in the descriptions below, that does NOT imply that
the elemental CANNOT have that ability. Use common sense. For example, water
elementals are not listed as extinguishing fires -- because common sense
indicates that water will extinguish fire.

Service Traits and Service Tests
Elementals of different domains are more or less reliable as summoned
servants. When a caster gives a summoned elemental a command, a Service Test
must be made against the Faithful and Vengef
ul Traits of the sprite. (See Rules and Terms, "Service Traits and Service
Tests," page ??.)
Below are listed the Service Traits for each of the Elemental Domains:
Elemental Air: Faithful 10, Vengeful 4.
Elemental Fire: Faithful 7, Vengeful 10.
Elemental Water: Faithful 17, Vengeful 5.
Elemental Earth: Faithful 17, Vengeful 3.

Least Elementals (also known as Elemental Servants)_____
Least Elementals are modest coherences of elemental matter no more than 1
cubic yard in volume. They usually assume the forms of small animals, but may
also appear as miniature versions of natural phenomena (eg, whirlwinds,
flames, fountain, etc.). Basic profiles of two sample forms are given below
for each type of least elemental. Servants cannot use armor, weapons, and/or
tools.
Least elementals are fairly intelligent, can understand and speak Elemental
Tongue, and can follow directions about as well as a well-trained,
supernaturally-intelligent  domestic animal. They follow commands literally,
however, and seldom show initiative or imagination, except when presented
with an undesirable task, when they may display some ingenuity in avoiding
the task without directly refusing to complete it. The GM may require
Intelligence tests (did the least elemental understand the command?) and Will
Power tests (was the caster persuasive?) at his discretion.
Though all least elementals of a given domain are similar in attitude and
temperment, they vary in character about as much as do domestic animals.
Least elementals are fairly tractable, but least pyronomes and geonomes in
particular may present some threat to the summoning cultist if not
controlled.

Least Aeronome

Dust Devil form: A small, whirling tornado funnel. Swift, aggressive fighter.
Reckless and carelessly destructive. Fly as hoverer.
 M WS BS S T  W  I A Dx Ld IQ CL WP Fel MP
10 35  0 1 2  6 70 1 20 10 15 10 30 20   8

Crow form: A black, yellow-billed bird about 12-18 inches tall. Mimicks human
speech. Manipulates objects well with beak and claws. Fly as swooper.
 M WS BS S T  W  I A Dx Ld IQ CL WP Fel MP
 8 25  0 2 2  6 70 1 30 10 20 10 30 20   8

Restrictions: -2 modifier to damage. 
Service Traits: Faithful 10, Vengeful 4.
Attitude and Temperment: Occasionally playful and distractable but likely to
concentrate on a task and use some ingenuity when presented with unforeseen
difficulties. Quirky and tempermental at times, often rude and disrespectful.
Similar to a parrot or trained raven in personality.
Typical Applications: Produce light equivalent to a lantern. Carry or crudely
manipulate light objects (ie, torch, tankard of ale, etc. of Encumbrance 5 or
less). Retrieve remote objects. Distract and confuse opponents in melee.
Scout for living beings or magickal emanations.


A Sample Cult - Ecate


Ecate Cult______________________________________

"By the pricking of my thumbs/ something wicked this way comes."
 Shakespeare, Macbeth

Description: Lesser God; Dark Children pantheon; dau
ghter of the Earth Mother, mistress of Taal, mother of Khaine. Ecate is the
patroness of bitter truths, vengeance, dark knowledge, and black magick. The
search for Mastery is the burning desire of man; Mastery is sought through
acknowledgement of the dark human desires of lust, greed, and domination,
ruthless weighing of greed and pain, and unflinching pursuit of the Dark
Sources of Power.

Where Worshipped: Worshipped by the nomadic Romany peoples throughout the Old
World, by various other barbarian cul
tures under other names, and by scattered secret cults and individuals. Ecate
worship is generally considered evil, and is outlawed or persecuted except in
several kingdoms of the Border Princedoms.

Alignments: Neutral and Evil are preferred. Good (and Slaneesh Chaos only)
are accepted. Law and Chao
s (other than Slaneesh) are prohibited. (Worshippers of Ecate are not
necessarily evil, but are often the enemies of the common Old World cults and
cultures. Most Lay Priests and masters will be harmless
hedgewizard-equivalents who sell modest magickal services to the people.
However, since the principles guiding the use of those magickal powers are
hardly humanistic, witches do tend to be the source of more harm than good.
Witches often protest that they are just providing the weak and poor with
services that normally only the rich and powerful can afford; nonetheless,
those magickal services are more often spiteful and greedy than compassionate
and community-minded.)

Friends and Enemies: Allied with Khaine, though disdainful and wary of his
madness. Wary diplomacy with Slaneesh; hostile to other Chaos Powers. Bitter
hostility towards Young Gods. Rebellious but respectful of Old Faith. Neutral
but sympathetic 
with Elder Race cults.

Cult Symbols and Dress: The symbolic correspondences of Ecate are pe
rsonal and idiosyncratic; universally associated with Ecate worship, however,
is the cauldron -- the
 mystical source of dark magicks. Lay Priests and Priests of Ecate are
referred to as Masters or Mistresses of the Craft, and are popularly known as
Witches and Warlocks. Advanced clerical careers in E
cate do not perform conventional priestly duties, though they may lead
worship ceremonies at religious festivals like the Sabbats. Ceremony and
tradition dictates that black or dark garments be worn, but i
t is not obligatory. Masters who emphasize the revenge and domination
principles of Ecate we
ar black; Masters who seek dark knowledge and power for its own sake wear
white, and are called "Whi
te Witches."

Cult Careers Available: Lay Priest, Priest (called Master or Mistress of the
Craft; Lay Priest and Priest alike are commonly called Witches and Warlocks)

Distinguishing Principles and Doctrines: The mysteries of Craft must be kept
secret from Outsiders -- likewise the identities of Masters of Craft.
Serve yourself, your family, your companions. Trust no Outsider; they are
your enemies, and you must muster your strength to defend yourself against
them.
The Outsiders are cattle. Only the strong may Master the Craft.
Knowledge is power. The knowledge that others seek to forbid you is the power
they seek to deny you for their own ends.
Just because you fear a thing does not make it evil. It may simply be
dangerous, and you must be more dangerous still to deal with it.
Nothing ventured, nothing gained. If you seek power, you must risk. Be
bloody, bold, and resolute.
All beings seek gratification, wealth, and power. Champions of other ideals
may be well-intentioned, tender-hearted dreamers, but they are deluded -- or
they may use these ideals as postures to conceal their true desires.
The Old Ways are best -- serve and protect the clan, honor the Powers that
preserve you, and shun not the Darkness.

Afterworld: After death there is nothing for the individual. When the body
dies, the individual dies. Normally the spirit
 goes to Ecate in payment for the power and protection the body received in
life. Those who have Mastery may choose to avoid the death of the individual,
but the price is great, and the life of undying spirit is bitter -- but
Masters with great desires for vengeance or domination may elect to remain as
ghosts,  haunts, or other shades.

Temple and Shrines: No temples or shrines. Worship is pursued in secret.
There is no formal hierarchy, but Masters of the Craft are acknowledged as
such and shown respect and deference. Convocations may be called by a Grand
Master or by a group of Crafters to consider and discuss issues of common
interest to many worshippers.
A coven is a formal bonding of Craft Masters for mutual support,  protection,
and sharing of knowledge and craft; such groups are not ordained but are fav
ored by Ecate. Traditionally the number of a coven is thirteen; in practice
any number of Crafters may establish themselves as a coven. Each coven
determines its own rule: some are dominated by one or two powerful Crafters;
others are communities of more-or-less equals. Some covens may have regular
meetings for worship and practice of magick; other covens gather irregularly
if at all.

Saints and Heroe
s:  Because of Ecate's dedication to secrecy, most saints and heroes of the
cult are anonymous, known only by the legends of their exploits. The greatest
of these saints and heroes are the anonymous authors and compilers of the
great grimoires -- books recording the secret knowledge of the Craft, ha
nded down from one generation to next, like Liber Spiritum, Grimoire Verum,
The Fiend's Coercion, Sword of Urtur, Key of Hermes, etc. Since many of the
Craft are illiterate, these ancient books seem all the more marvelous. The
science of alchemy is thought to have learned many secrets from the perusa
l of such books; among alchemists there may be many who worship Ecate.

Cult Requirements: Requirements for Layman Status: Automatic for offspring of
the Romany. Others are elected for initiation by Lay Priests or priests. One
cannot apply for initiation to the cult in any formal manner, though those
expressing a desire for Dark Knowledge, Power, or Revenge are often made
known to the Craft in some unknown fashion.
Requirements for Lay Priest Status: Granting of detect magick is commonly
acknowledged as a sign of a Calling. Usually elected and sponsored by a
Master or Mistress of the Craft; occasionally pe
rsonally elected by Ecate herself.
Requirements for Priest Status:  Usually elected and spon
sored by a Master or Mistress of the Craft; occasionally personally elected
by Ecate herself.

Trials: Trials typically involve searching out a Master or Mistress to Lay
Priest the aspiring cultist in some Mystery of Dark Knowledge -- often a
difficult and dangerous task, since Masters and Mistresses of the Craft are
secretive and perilously aggressive in protecting their privacy.

Blessings: One-time-use bonus or automatic success with silent move rural,
concealment rural, charm, charm animal, sixth sense, luck
, palm object, pick pocket, flee!, divination skills.

Penances: Ecate rarely commands a formal penance from a worshipper. A
worshipper in disfavor is simply denied access to magickal power or ben
efits of the cult; it is up to the worshipper to figure out what actions have
offended Ecate, and
 how to redeem himself in her eyes.

Holy Days: Ecate does not observe formal Judgement Days. She takes little
personal interest in her worshippers. They usually do not come to her
attention except through dramatic service or disservice to the cult, or
through direct contact with the goddess (either through personal petition, or
through favorable or unfavorable report by a fellow Crafter).
Worshippers wishing 
the direct attention of Ecate may participate in the occasional festivals
called Sabbats. There are no regular schedules or provisions for calling a
Sabbat; such celebrations rely on the spontaneous energies and ambitions of
Masters or Mistresses. Traditionally Sabbats are observed on nights of a full
moon, from midnight to cock-crow at a crossroads or Old Faith ley site;
worship services are usually led by a prominent Master or Mistress. Newcomers
are Lay Priestd, and worship ceremonies and rituals are accompanied by
orgiastic dancing and sexual activities. Worshippers participating in sabbats
may receive blessings just as worshippers of other cults receive blessings on
Judgements Days; they may also make special petitions; Terrible Oaths sworn
at a Sabbat receive special and usually favorable attention from 
Ecate.

Gifts: 
Rank 1: Gain an animal-spirit familiar as a companion. Upon becoming a Priest
1st Rank the Master is granted a dream vision in which a spirit-creature
comes to him. Roll once on th
e Ecate Familiar Table (see "Special Rules" below) to discover the familiar's
species. The spirit-creature becomes the character's constant companion, and
confers certain advantages to the character in keeping with the
spirit-creature's nature, while in return the character is required to honor
certain strictures. In addition, the character is assured of a friendly, or
at least neutral, response from all encountered animals of the familiar's
species. 
See Divine Terms and Rules, "Familiars," pp. ??-??, for details concerning
familiars.
Use the evil eye ability as the Level 2 Necromantic spell evil eye once per
day



Prayer List


Petty Prayer Table

Prayer MP Range Duration Area of Effect Resist? Effects Summary Page #
Animal Empathy 1 6 yards 1 turn One Creature of Nature None read beast
(Int6-14) emotions ???
Bless Token 1 token 1d6+3 hours one sacred to
ken None token is sacred ground ???
Blessed Sacraments 1 touch 1d6+3 turns F
ood,drink for 10  None +10 Cool,WP; 1d4 hrs ???
Detect Magic 2 token Instantaneo
us 6 yards square None reveal passive & active magick ???
Exalted Shield 1 6 yar
ds 1d6+3 rounds one cultist shield None parry 1 melee or missile attack ???
Gift 
of Tongues 2 self/cultist 1d6+6 turns 10 yard radius none understand & speak
language ???
Heal Cultist 3 Touch Instantaneous one  cultist None heal 1d6+1 W
 for cultist ???
Heal Petitioner 3 Touch Instantaneous one non-cultist None 
heal 1d6-1 W for non-cultist ???
Know Follower 1 token  Instantaneous 10 yard ra
dius None locate cultists ???
Light the Path 1 sacred token one hour 6 yard 
radius None shed light like a lamp ???
Obscure the Path 3 self 1 hour cle
ric's trail None conceal trail and scents ???
Seek Shrine 1 Self Instantaneous 
Self None location of nearest sacred ground ???
Shadeward 2 touch 1d6+3 roun
ds cleric/cultist None +20 WP vs. fear of undead ???
Summon Skel. Warrior 3 10 y
ards 'til next dawn NA None 1 skeletal warrior of Khaine ???
Vigilance 3 
Self 1d6+3 hours Self None no surprise or +20 Init ???



Ecate Familiar Table

   _________ Strictures _____________________________________
D100 Familiar Skills Armor Shield Weapons Times/Places
01-05 Bat Night Vision, Acute Hearing leather no 2-handed, firearms night
06-10 Cat Silent Move Rural, Li
ghtning Reflexes none no blunt, 2-handed forest or mountain
11-15  Eagle 
Excel. Vision, Animal Training (hawk) none no blunt mountain
16-20 Frog Swim
, Acrobatics none no 2-handed, firearms water
21-25 Owl Night Vision, Silent Mov
e Rural none no blunt night
26-30 Rabbit Flee!, Dodge Blow none no 
2-handed, firearms night, underground
31-35 Rat Immunity to Disease, Frenzied Attack 
leather yes 2-handed night, underground, town
36-40 Raven Excellent Vision, Divi
ning none no blunt forest, battlefield
41-45 Stoat Hypnotise, Game Hunting 
leather yes 2-handed forest
46-50 Viper Immunity to Poison, Hypnotize leath
er no 2-handed not town
51-00 Imp Sixth Sense, Luck leather no none dusk, midnight, dawn
Skills: The first skill listed is gained at 1st rank, the second skill listed
at 2nd rank. Both skills are received free without ep cost.
Armor, Shield, & Weapons: Shows type of armor permitted, whether shield is
permitted, and prohibited weapon types.
Times/Places: The character can regain magick points with meditation only at
the listed times and places.



