From: Psychedelic Goblin <PS4CC@merkland.rgu.ac.uk>
Subject: WFRP: RUKH, god of Smithing

the following god is based on a note on Ringil (Apocrypha Now pg 63)

RUKH, dwarven god of smithing

Rukh is the brother of Grungni and represents the dwarven crafting of 
metal, and to a lesser extent, invention. He appears as a broad dwarf 
with a short black beard, bronzed skin, wearing a leather apron, and 
wielding a adamantine hammer. His arms are marvellous constructions
of steel and mithril and can hammer tirelessly.
Some scholars postulate that he is an aspect of the gnomic god 
Ringil, but his followers vehemently deny this, stating that the 
opposite is closer to the truth.
Alignment - Neutral
Symbol - A Hammer in a clenched metal fist. Worn as a pendant by his 
clerics and branded onto their leather aprons.
Area of Worship - Worshipped by dwarves throughout the Old World.
Temples - All dwarven smiths and their guilds have a small shrine 
dedicated to Rukh, the focus of which is usually a silver plated 
anvil engraved with his symbol.
Friends + Enemies - Rukh is on good terms with the dwarven pantheon 
(esp his brother Grungni). He has very little to do with other cults, 
but is on good terms with the Elemental gods, because he uses all 4 
elements in the forging process. He hates the enemies of dwarven 
kind.
Holy Days - Rukh has no specific holy days but his followers offer 
prayers to him at the start and completion of any construction.
Cult requirements - Any adult dwarf who has completed a career as an 
Engineer, Craftsman or Inventor may follow Rukh.
Strictures - All initiates and clerics of Rukh must abide by the 
following strictures:
 - 10% of all income must be made over to the cult
 - never leave a work unfinished
 - the products of your craft are sacred and must not be abused or 
allowed to fall into the hands of enemies (such as goblinoids)
 - retrieve any items of dwarven manufacture that such an enemy holds
 - dwarven artefacts are the races birthright. Spare no effort to 
bring them back to the dwarven community
Spell Use - Clerics of Rukh may use any Elementalist spells except:
Walk on Water, Zone of Hiding, Cause Rain, Part Water, Become 
Ethereal, Create Quicksand, Dust Storm, Hedge of Thorns, and Summon 
Swarm.
He can use the following Battle Magic spells:
Hammerhand, Animate Sword, Curse of Arrow Attraction, Enchant Weapon
He also has several cult specific spells.
Skills - Clerics may spend XP each level to buy any of the following 
skills: Engineer, Metallurgy*, Rune Lore, Smithing*
* - indicates they may purchase the skill twice.
Trials - Trials favoured by Rukh involve the construction of superior 
items, and the retreival of lost dwarven artefacts.
Blessings - Skills favoured include all craft type skills. Construct 
is the only favoured test.

CULT SPELLS

Soften Metal
Spell Level - 1
Magic Points - varies
Range - 1yd
Duration - varies
Ingrediants  - a small flame
This spell softens the metal of any object being worked on. It cannot 
soften items that are not being constructed, reworked, or repaired.
For Iron/Steel it costs 1MP per 10enc
For Mithril it costs 2MP per 10enc
For Adamantite it costs 4MP per 10enc
The net effect is an additional +10% to the construct test.

Arm of Rukh
Spell Level - 2
MP - 1 per hour
Range - Personal
Duration - 1+ hours
Ingrediants - small silver hammer (about 1GC)
This spell endows the casters arm with tireless strength. He can work 
the metal faster, longer and with more skill. It enables the 
construct to be created in 50% of the normal time and gives +10% to 
the construct test. Note that the MP cost must be expended every hour 
while working and continue throughout the process.

Find Flaw
Spell Level - 2
Magic Points - 1 per 5enc
Range - Touch
Duration - Instant
Ingrediants - a tiny magnet
This spell enables the caster to find any potential flaws or weakness 
in a piece of metal and work around the flaw so the metal is 
stronger. Increase the T of the item by 1 and its damage points by 
d4+1. Note: this spell can only be used on unworked metal/ore, and does
not increase the Armour Points of any armour made from it. 
