From: Psychedelic Goblin <PS4CC@merkland.rgu.ac.uk>
To: Wfrp@gojira.monsta.com
Subject: WFRP: Sho'sarrah

SHO 'SARRAH - The Great Provider
Deity of All Living Plants

Description: Sho 'sarrah is one of the major deities of the Wood 
elven pantheon, and is the master of all living plants, from tne 
slender willow, to the lowly mushroom, to the mighty oak.
Sho 'sarrah is a practical deity, as it's realm provides the Wood 
elves with shelter, food and raw materials. it is the sister/brother 
of Karnos and patron of elven herbalists. It's appearance varies as 
it can appear as an elf of either sex and of any height (upto the 
tallest tree). It always has a trailing mane of grass, leaves and 
vines, skin of bark and eyes of emerald green. It can also appear as 
any plant.

Alignment: Neutral

Symbol: The symbol of Sho 'sarrah is any living plant, but most often 
a mighty tree. Clerics of Sho 'sarrah favour plain, practical and 
natural clothes, dyed green and brown.They all carry living wood 
staves. For ceremonies, many wear 'emerald weave' robes.

Area of Worship: All wood elven settlements, forests, woods etc.

Temples: Sho 'sarrah has no temples but natural woodland clearings 
are often used for ceremonies.

Friends and Enemies: Sho 'sarrah is well disposed to the other wood 
elven deities, and to other 'natural' deities and religions such as 
Taal, Rhya and the Old Faith. Anyone who commits unnecessary 
destruction of the natural environment is an enemy. This has led to 
conflict with greedy woodsmen.

Holy Days: Sho 'sarrah has 2 holy days. 1 at the onset of spring (a 
celebration called 'the Awakening'), and 1 at the onset of winter ( a 
solemn ritual called 'the Slumbering') However, Sho 'sarrah exists 
throughout the winter as it is also the master of the evergreens.

Cult Requirements: Clerics and initiates of Sho 'sarrah must abide by 
the following strictures:
 - Never destroy a plant except for food or necessities.
 - Never take more than is completely necessary
 - If possible, plant a new plant to replenish a lost/used one.
 - Protect the forsest from those who would despoil or harm it.
 - Do not use fire when there is too much risk. 

Spell Use: clerics and initiates have access to the following spells:
Petty: All
level 1: Cure Poison(plant only), Heal Plant, Immunity to Poison (plant only), 
Sleeping Sap, Zone of Hiding(forest only)
level 2:Extinguish Fire, Illusionary Woods, Purify, Shape the Fallen 
Branch, Tanglethorn, Ward Vegetation.
level 3: Accelerate Growth (plant only), Animate Tree, Harden the 
Fallen Branch, Shape the Living Green.
level 4: Hedge of Thorns, Harden the Living Green, Teleport(between 
trees).

Skills: Initiates of Sho 'sarrah receive Identify plant instead of 
Sec. Lang - Classical.
Clerics of Sho 'sarrah may choose 1 of the following skills at each 
level for the normal xp cost:
Concealment Rural, Herb Lore, Immunity to Poison (plant only), 
Orientation, Prepare poison (plant only), scale sheer Surface,
 Silent Move Rural

Trials: Trials set by Sho 'sarrah always involve the protection of 
the forest.

Blessings: No cleric or initiate of Sho 'sarrah is ever attacked by 
Bloodsedge, and Treemen are favourable disposed to them.
skills favoured include those mentioned above. Punishments often 
prohibit the offender from touching any plant based material 
(including food) on pain of agony. 
