From: Thomas Oesterlie <toaster@pvv.unit.no>
Subject: [WFRP:1443] Alignments in WFRP - why?

This is the second old article I found on my desk the other day. I hope it's
contents are better than the Hornling-stuff. I haven't opened my Hogshead
version of the rulebook, so all page-references are to the GW version.

---Begin inclusion---

Have you ever noticed how several races' alignments don't fit their racial
descriptions? Take, for instance, elves. The elven races (except Dark Elves)
are all Lawful or Good. The description of Good alignment on pp89 WFRP,
states that:

"Good characters are concerned with natural well-being. They believe in
social hierarchy, responsibility, helping others, and settling all conflict
by peaceful means if possible. Good characters are opposed to all
destruction, suffering and cruelty. Unlike Lawful characters, who will often
pursue an evil-doer to the bitter end, Good characters can be forgiving.

For				Against
Natural order and beauty	Unnecessary cruelty
Duty and hard work		Unprovoked or excessive violence
Learning			Crime and dishonesty"

The racial description of Elves pp 217 WFRP, says the following:

"Elves are the oldest and wisest of all the humanoid races. They are a
sophisticated people, with a profound love of the arts (...)"

So far everything corresponds to the description of Good aligned creatures.
But (racial description of Elves pp217 WFRP):

"(...) and lives of hedonistic self-indulgence."

Hedonism, as far as I know, is a way of life in accordance to your bodily
pleasures. Now, this doesn't necessarily contradict with the alignment
description: "For (...) Duty and hard work", but what follows do contradict,
without doubt:

"No Elf likes to have to deal with the problems of everyday life, and labour
of all kinds are considered dull."

And the racial description continues straight into another contradiction
with the alignment description:

"Elves do not get on well with other races, being arrogant (...)"

What about Good aligned creatures being "For (..) natural order"? OK, I'll
confess that they might consider being arrogant as the natural order, but
anyhow, I personally find this a bit strange.

Another example of the racial description contradicting the race's alignment
is the racial description of Dwarfs pp15 WFRP.

"They are somewhat greedy, gruff, unfriendly, short-tempered and anti-social."

In short, Dwarfs may be considered being "(...)Against (...) Sociable
behaviour" which is a classification of Evil aligned creatures in the
alignment description on pp89 WFRP. Also, under the racial description of
Dwarfs on pp216 WFRP:

"Dwarfs are a very materialistic people (...)"

Description of Evil aligned creatures pp 89 WFRP states:

"For (...) materialism"

Still Dwarfs are of Neutral alignment, which, taking the major part of the
racial description of Dwarfs in consideration, is not unfitting; but...
there are several points in the racial description that might suggest that
Dwarfs are Evil.

Concerning the Elves: the reason why they are of Good alignment seems, at
least to me, to be an Tolkienish illusion of Elves being good. According to
the description of Elves, I would say that all Elves (except Dark Elves)
should be of Neutral alignment.

But the reason why I wrote this mail was not to criticise the racial
description of Elves, but to maybe raise a discussion about the Alignment
system of WFRP. The way I feel, is that there is no reason why the AD&Dish
alignment system should be included in WFRP. Pledging to alignments makes
the world extremely black and white. As I have given an example of above,
Dwarfs are Neutral creatures (most of them at least), but they still have
some characteristics of Evil creatures. Should Dwarfs be Neutral or Evil...
or maybe they should be Neutral-Evil. This discussion seems pointless to me.
Get rid of the alignment system, and read the races' racial description.
This way the Warhammer World will still be a colourful place made up of
different personalities and races, NOT different alignments.

---End inclusion---

Thomas Oesterlie
toaster@pvv.unit.no
Maintainer of the Warhammer Archives
-------------------------------------------------------------
PVV - The Software Workshop, University of Trondheim, Norway

