From: John Blankenship <dmt@u.washington.edu>
Subject: My alignment system.

Alignment Points:
	an alternate system for alignment determination and maintenance

Version 1.0

Introduction
------------
Ever since my earliest days playing AD&D, I always felt that the alignment
concept -- like the 'class' concept -- seemed horribly stiff and
inflexible, and relatively unable to adapt to changes in a character's
personal life as well as events around him. (I won't even go into the
concept of alignment 'languages'. ^_^)

The first game I saw that had something that kinda seemed 'right' was
Chaosium's _Stormbringer_, that had points you acquired between serving
Law and Chaos (gross oversimplification of the game, mind you); the more
you acquired in one direction, the more chaotic (or lawful) you had
behaved, and indeed, were likely to behave.

When I first found WFRP, I found a really nice, well reasoned system for
replacing classes with occupations and careers. However, alignments
still seemed to be stuck in the same paradigm. This then is my attempt to
do something similar with alignments.

Concept
-------

We know from Warhammer that Good does not necessarily equal Lawful, nor
Evil Chaotic, so why is it that they are commonly portrayed as a linear
progression like so:

 Lawful <--> Good <--> Neutral <--> Evil <--> Chaotic   ?

To me , a much more sensible relationship (given that Lawful people can
exhibit both Evil and Good behavior in the pursuit of stasis, just as
Chaotic people can exhibit both Good and Evil behavior in the pursuit of
change) would be as follows: (please forgive the horrible ASCII drawing)

			Lawful
		      /   |   \
             / -------    |    ----------\
	    /             |               \
	Good------------Neutral-----------Evil
	   \              |		   /
            \---------\   |     /---------/
         	       \  |    /
			Chaotic

As such, it seems that (A) any character should be able to move from
Neutral to any of the 4, or from one of the 4 to any other 3 without straining
credibility as a character.  Likewise, it seems to me (and this is not a
homage to TSR!) that (B) a character could combine two of the outer 'ring'
alignments, as long as they were not in opposition (ie Lawful and Evil for
a head of a Thieves Guild, or somesuch). The system I use works best if
you use both (A) and (B), but it will work with modifications with just
(A).

Mechanics
---------

Most characters, and all humanoid races available to PC's (including
Elves; I don't buy the Elves-as-intrinsically-good angle one bit) start
out at Neutral unless they have a really, really good reason to be
otherwise (being an Initiate of a various diety, for example, would be an
excellent reason, but simply being raised in a culture of Good or Evil
isn't enough to lock that character into that alignment; a Dark Elf
adventuring in the Old World isn't likely to share the views of his
relatives, or he wouldn't be there, ne?). As such, characters start out
with +0 Lawful, Good, Evil and Chaotic Alignment points. Alignment points
are awarded to characters in response to actions, in roleplaying or in
combat, that are clearly something a person of a given aligment would do.

I'll rank the assigning of Alignment Points (ALP for short hereafter, for
brevity) in three degrees:

1. A minor action that typically wouldn't cause much, or minor discomfort
to the character in question, but is either out of the characters way, or
not fitting with what the character should be doing. +1 ALP.

Example: a character accepting a contract to kill a man (for no particular
reason, just money) would gain +1 ALP in Evil; a character who decided to
donate his adventure's earnings to the local church orphanage would gain
+1 ALP in Good (assuming there were no ulterior motives).

2. A major action that would cause major discomfort to the character in
question (quite possibly risking their life, estate, or reputation) is
worth +2 ALP.

Example: a character throwing themselves in front of a beggar to protect
them from a stray fireball at no thought to their own safety would be +2
to Good (if they are wearing powerful magical armor, or have resistance to
fire, it would fit under 1), above); a character who starts a revolution
against a town/state/religious leader would gain +2 ALP in Chaotic.

3. A massive action that would not only possibly cause major discomfort
for them, but for their friends, neighbors, innocents, etc on the basis of
principle is worth +3 ALP. Such events are _very_ far and few between.

Example: a duke walking into the Imperial Court announces that the Emperor
is in fact a cleverly disguised Chaos Spawn would gain +3 ALP (in Lawful
or Good, or maybe both) irregardless of how prepared they were to prove
the fact. A daemonlogist who comes upon the soul-crystal of a chaos
Godling realizes that he could use it to either call forth the godling and
have it be his slave (+3 ALP in Chaotic) or use it to destroy the godling
for good (+3 ALP in Lawful).

Accounting of ALP goes as follows: The alignments are arranged in a
diamond, as mentioned earlier. Any _opposing_ points counteract each
other. Law points counter Chaos points, and Good points counter Evil
points such that if a character receives +2 ALP(Evil), +1 ALP(Lawful), and
+1 ALP(Good), his net change to his ALP profile would be +1 Evil, +1
Lawful from the adventure.

A character changes his alignment from Neutral once he receives +10 ALP in
any field; the character may have up to two alignments at any time,
assuming that one of them isn't Neutral. This gives us 9 possible
alignments; Lawful/Good, Lawful, Lawful/Evil, Good, Neutral,
Evil, Chaotic/Good, Chaotic, Chaotic/Evil. (Yes, I _know_ the similarities
this has to _that_ game..)

A character starting out in one non-Neutral alignment automatically
receives +10 ALP's in that direction. I'd recommend only starting
characters with single alignments; see below for why.

Characters can become Neutral if they have zero ALP's in every field.

Once a character is in a alignment, he stays that alignment until he
changes again. A Neutral character that gains +9 Evil ALP will still be
Neutral; a Lawful character that drops down to +1 Lawful ALP will still be
Lawful.

Generally, I don't let people know the exact # of ALP they have; I will
let them know if they are definitely acting a certain way, and I do notify
them when they change alignments.

Experience
----------

Generally, in my campaign, Neutral players aren't penalized for ALP gains
until they switch alignments; then, any ALP gains in opposite directions
(evil for a good character) penalize experience gains; any ALP gains in
purpendicular directions (evil for a lawful character) don't effect
experience, and any ALP gains in positive directions (chaotic for a
chaotic character) should add to experience for playing the character
correctly.

Optional/Suggested modifications
--------------------------------
So far, I've only tested this system in one campaign, and what you see
here is the result of that. I'm getting ready to run another, and I'll
probably revise them again afterwards. Simple modifications that could be
made, for example:

1) Let PC's accumulate more than +10 ALP's in any given axis.
2) Dispense with double alignments, and introduce a fractional deduction
(say 1/3 or 1/4 of a ALP) for ALP gains at right angles to the character
alignment.
3) Penalize any ALP gains outside of the character's alignment.

I'm sure others can think of other mods..

Problems/Benefits of this System vs the Default
----------------------------------------------

Problems:
1) It introduces another number and variable for a beleagured GM to keep
track of, in addition to requiring a large # of judgement calls on the
GM's part while assigning ALP's.
2) If you subscribe to the nature over nuture view of morality (esp. for
races), it doesn't make much sense.
3) If players have no problem defining their character's morality at the
onset of the game, and consistently play it, then it is downright
unnecessary. (Mind you, I don't think WFRP is about playing moral
absolutes..)

Benefits:
1) Alignment is dynamic, and adjusts how the character really plays, which
gives everyone involved both an idea of how well they are playing their
character as well as a measure of sorts..
2) If you subscribe to either the nuture over nature, or relativist views
of morality, it makes a little more sense.
3) People can 'grow' into their characters, and they aren't forced to
necessarily act a certain way on the onset.

Opinions/comments?

john blankenship
may 30, 1996
