From: Psychedelic Goblin <PS4CC@merkland.rgu.ac.uk>
Subject: Combat Rules.

1)Untrained Use of Specialist Weapons.
At present anyone using a weapon they don't have the specialist skill 
for attacks at a base 10%. This is ludicrous because most people can 
hit someone with anything more than 1 time in 10 attacks. It's really 
silly if you consider an experienced warrior (WS65) is also stuck at 
the same level.
 - Solution: Halve the WS (round down) when using specialist weapons 
untrained. This still gives a strong modifier and reflects the 
abilities and talents of each person.

2) Toughness vs Damage
We all know about naked dwarf syndrome by now, but even in more 
mundane cases it takes 3 average sword blows to critically wound the 
average human. In my opinion it should take no more than 2.
 - Solution: use half T (round up). this means even Mr Hard the Dwarf 
with T9 takes 1 or 2 points of damage from the average sword blow.
Another good point is this encourages characters to parry attacks.
This rule is applicable to all creatures including dragons. More will 
become apparent below.
I also use a slight variation of clay luthers excellent scale rules.

3)Armour.
As it stands there is no difference between chain or plate, and 1 AP 
is nothing really. In conjuction with the lowering of T vs damage, 
the effectiveness of armour should be increased as follows:
Leather - no change
Chain Mail - 2AP
Plate Mail - 4AP
Shield - 1AP (if not actively parrying), 4AP with a parry.
I think these rules portray armour slightly more realistically than 
before. For example: the average human wearing full plate can take 
effective damage upto 6 points, which just protects him from the 
average sword blow. The differentiation between plate and chain also 
avoids situations when players choose to wear chain simply because 
it's lighter than plate and provides the same protection.
Animals with natural armour have it beefed up as follows:
Hide - as leather
Shell/carapace- 2-3AP
Dragon Skin - 4AP.
Bear in mind that I use a slight variation of clay luthers excellent scale rules as 
well.
Armour should be subtracted BEFORE Toughness, not after as it states 
in WFRP. After all the armour is meant to intercept the blow before 
it reaches your flesh.

4) Specialist Weapon - 2 Weapon
Gives +1 attack/parry with a secondary weapon.
The secondary weapon must be no larger than a shortsword in length.
the wielder suffers penalties of -10%WS to the primary weapon, and 
-20%WS to the secondary weapon (halve these penalties if the 
character possess Ambidextrous).
The extra attack/parry must be with the secondary weapon.
Characters with the SW-Parrying skill can parry with the secondary 
weapon at no penalty.

5) Specialist Weapon - Parrying
This gives the character +10% to all parry attempts with a parrying 
weapon.

6) Specialist Weapon-Fist
At the moment this skill covers knuckle dusters, garottes and meat 
hooks! There are several problems:
Firstly, it doesn't take any real skill to use knuckle dusters or 
gauntlets because all they do is essentially 'harden' the fist of any 
punch attack. Anyone who can punch, can use them at no penalty, which 
is why thugs favour them.
Secondly, there is a world of difference between punching someone, 
slashing them with a hook, and strangling them with a cord.
- solution: anyone can use knuckle dusters and gauntlets at no 
penalty.
Strangling weapons are now covered by SW-Garotte (see below).
SW-Fist now only covers slashing fist weapons such as meathooks and 
warclaws.

7) Spec Weapon - Garotte
Covers the use of garottes, scarves, knotted cords and the like.
the attack is usually from behind and with surprise. damage as 
follows:
The victim can struggle for T rounds but suffers a cumulative -10% 
penalty beyond the first. After T rounds have elapsed the victim 
falls unconscious. Thereafter the attacker can inflict S damage per 
round until the victim dies (using the sudden death critical table), 
OR can leave the garotte around the neck of the victim, keeping the 
air supply cut off, in which case the victim dies in T rounds.
The struggling is an opposed S test.

8) Dodge Blow
The character with this skill can dodge attacks at their full 
Initiative score.
Characters without the skill dodge at half their Initiative score 
(round down).
For either, each successive dodge in the same round incurs a cumulative 
-10% penalty.

9) Unarmed Combat
As it stands, all characters suffer a -20%WS penalty when fighting 
unarmed and -3 damage. I agree with the damage penalty but not the WS 
penalty. It is much easier for a human to kick or punch than wield a 
sword effectively without training. Unarmed is our natural state and 
I think reducing the average human to WS23 unarmed is stupid. At 
least 1 in 3 blows should connect.
 - solution: characters fighting unarmed do so with no WS penalty.
Street Fighting - this now implies a seasoned unarmed fighter, who 
adds +10%WS unarmed (except grappling) and has the damage penalty 
reduced to -2nl, for all attacks except grappling.
Wrestling - this works as Street Fighting but applies to grappling 
only.

>Combat Modes
Mode                                 Init     To Hit   Damage                             
Unarmed*                              -            -           -3nl
Gauntlet/Knuckle Duster*    -            -           -2nl
Warclaw/Meat hook           -           SW          -1
Grapple                             -10        -10         -3nl
nl - non lethal. These attacks are always Strike to Stun, and only 
25% of the damage is real (has an effect on the Wounds).
* - means the attack is effected by the unarmed vs armour rules.

10) Missile Weapons
At the moment a throwing knife does the same damage as a throwing axe 
or normal sword attack! In fact, a few of the missile weapons are 
overpowered. Solution: see table below.

Weapon                 S     L    Ex      ES  Load/Fire
Sling                     24    36   150    -2         1rd
Staff Sling            24    36   200    -2       1rd/1rd
Dart*                    4      8     20     -2         1rd
Throwing knife     4      8    20      -2         1rd
* - a dart in this case refers to the war dart as used by the greeks 
and romans. They were about 16" long.

11) Clays Scale Rules
I use them with only 1 minor modification:
instead of 1 dice per scale difference for damage, I just add 1 for 
each scale difference.
In clays example the dragon according to his rules would have done
9+4d6 damage (an average of 23!, which I feel is a little too high).
With my modification it would be 12+d6 (for an average of 16, which 
is more than enough to eviscerate the average human).


Grishnag!!
You'll Never take me Alive!!
Goblinoids of the World Unite!!
