                            The Dispelling Skill



Prepared by D J Brattan
Original Concept by Tim Steele


The idea of dispelling has been changed in the 4th edition of Warhammer Fantasy
Battle. It has changed from using the appropriately named Battle magic spell to
being more of a skill that a magician has or an innate property that certain 
magic items are prized for. For this reason and to cover the Dwarven innate 
ability to resist magic, I use these rules set out below for my roleplay 
campaign.

Any character with the ability to cast spells can also learn the skill of 
dispelling. A character with this skill is taught how to use his innate ability
to twist the winds of magic so that a spell cast in his vicinity can be slightly
misaligned and therefore disrupted. The idea is similar to an engineer building
a great tower. One brick out of place can cause the whole construction to 
collapse. Knowing which brick is the critical one is where the skill is 
involved.

The skill is usually made available at the same level as when Petty Magic is 
available ie as a wizard's apprentice or Druidic Priest etc and is acquired via
the same process as other skills costing 100 xps. Dwarfs are an exception to 
this rule (See below).

There are also magic items that have an innate ability to disrupt magic cast 
against them, such as shields or talismans. These items are usually wrought by 
mighty mages and so have a strong chance to negate enemy spells. Any spell that
would otherwise affect the owner has a chance of being dispelled. Magic shields
etc of this kind usually have the same chance as a level 4 wizard in attempting
to dispel.


How it's Done :

Dispelling works by comparing the dispellers level and the spell casters level 
to the percentage on the table below. The casters percentage is taken away from
the dispellers and the resulting percentage is the chance to dispell.


Dispellers Spell Level   Dispel Chance   Casters Lvl Modifier

Petty ( or Dwarf)             25%                 +10%
Level 1                       35%                   0%
Level 2                       45%                  -5%
Level 3                       55%                 -10%
Level 4                       65%                 -15%


Augmenting Spells/Dispels : 
 

The chance to dispell can be further enhanced by using extra magic points. The 
dispeller gains an extra 5% per magic point used to augment his chance to 
dispel. Similarly the caster can use magic points to ensure his spell occurs. 
Each extra magic point used deducts 5% from the chance to dispell.

Before the spell is cast, the caster writes down how many extra points to be 
added to the overall magic points total (if any) to guard against dispelling. 
The dispelling mage then writes down secretly how many magic points (if any) is
to be used in the dispelling attempt. These amounts are then revealed and the 
percentage chance to dispell is further modified by the result.


An example : 

A 1st level mage has just learnt fireball. He is adventuring in the perilous 
vaults of Karak Varn and comes across an evil Orc Shaman. Immediately the mage
whips out a ball of sulphur and shouting the approriate words casts the spell 
at his victim. The mage decides to bolster his attempt of casting the spell 
seeing that his victim is also a spell caster and adds two extra points. (This 
would not be neccessary if he was fighting ogres, seeing they usually have no 
spell ability and therefore cannot attempt to dispel a spell). He writes this 
amount down and waits for the orc to respond.

The shaman is a wiley beast and knows that even though he is at 2nd level 
ability, a successful fireball against him will do more than give him an 
overall tan. He decides to use 3 magic points to defend himself and writes the 
amount down.

The two amounts are revealed and to the mages initial dismay, the total spell 
points are against him and so the shaman's dispell attempt will be at +5%. The 
above table is consulted and it is found that the Shaman has a basic dispel 
ability of 40%. The mage is 1st level and so adds +0% to this chance. The extra
+5% for spell points is added to this giving a total chance of 45%.

Now the Shaman rolls the dice to score a 53% and decides that perhaps Sunblock 
15+ would have been more useful. Our happy mage now has to contend with the 
Shaman's relatives running up the corridor behind him.


About Dwarfs : 

Dwarfs, being naturally wary of magic, are already aware of this skill. Any 
dwarf of any profession can expend the required 100xps to gain the skill. 
However, they do not get better at it like magicians do and so stay at the level
of Petty Magic when trying to dispell. This means that overall, the Dwarf will 
have 30% basic chance to Dispel which cannot be modified except by the level of
the casting mage and any extra points that mage expends.
