
More drugs of the Old World

This stuff was written by Stefan Fuhs,


Reikswald Moss ('Steppenkraut')
-------------------------------
This herbal drug is usually a dried part of the Reikswald Moss. The
effect is a relaxing daze in which the user feels comfortably lost.
Quite like weed, actually - here's the Warhammer version of it. Treat
Reikswald Moss like the normal tranquillisers described in the
Middenheim sourcebook, p.90.

Type: Tranquilliser	
Price/dose: 3 to 4 /-
Dependency: 5	
Addictiveness: -
Overdose: -	
Duration: 1d3+1
No. of doses to side effects: 1d100+20	
side effects: absent minded, melancholia
Availibility: common	
dosage: smoked in a pipe
effects: as described


Winterdreams
------------
Winterdreams is a synthetic drug from the alchemistic underground labs
of the Estalian City States. It is a strong hallucinogen that implies
the feeling of being in a winter landscape. The intensity of the
illusions depends upon the number of doses taken, but usually the
world seems to be silent and peaceful - enwrapped by snow and ice.
Note that there is a chance of a bad trip, since Winterdreams is a
normal hallucinogen. How this mind-boggling, horrifing trip exactly
looks like is up to the GM.

Type: hallucinogen	
Price/dose: 8 GC
Dependency: 20	
Addictiveness: 3
Overdose: 10	
Duration d3+1
No. of doses to side effects: 3d12+3	
side effects: gain 1 insanity point every 2 days
Availibility: Rare	
dosage: White pill - to be put on tongue


Rage of the beast ('Bloodletter')
---------------------------------
This stimulant is a nightmarish, brain-toasting combination of toxic
mushrooms, gunpowder, blood and obscure alchemistic ingredients. Rage
supresses all intellectual activity of the brain and focuses only on
combat, a reason why it is mainly used by burned-out warriors and pit
fighters. Treat Rage like the normal stimulant described on p.90, but
add an additional A+1, and change the movement penalty to M-4, due to
the incredible sour muscles afterwards.

Type: Stimulant	
Price/dose: 1 GC
Dependency: 20	
Addictiveness: 40
Overdose: 5	
Duration: 2d6
No. of doses to side effects: 15+1d6	
side effects: Frenzy, weight loss, animosity, Int-5
Availibility: Scare	
dosage: just eat the ugly black paste

Written by Stefan Fuhs, who - unfortunately - hasn't got an internet
access.



