From: "G.G.Lepper" <ZZA95GGL@sheffield.ac.uk>
Subject: WFRP: New Rules for Giants

New Rules for Giants

  In the WFRP combat system physical stats, weapons skill, unique 
skills, weapons, speed, are all taken into account.  One thing not 
taken into account is size...
  This may toughen large NPC's which is really needed in the game.  
The following are a way to deal with the sheer size of Daemons, 
Giants, Ogres, Treeman etc.
 
  First, because of their size, the toughness of their muscles, the 
density of their bones, blows from creatures half their size and less 
don't have a proportional force.  Therefore, all damage by creatures 
less than half the giant sized creatures size is reduced by one.  
This is not an increase in Toughness, or an extra AP, so therefore, 
rules affecting those two points should not be taken into account 
when reducing damage for size...
  Second, because they are larger, and their blows do more damage 
with all that mass bearing down,  weapon attacks by giants on non 
giants do an extra point of damage.  This is only for giants 
attacking creatures under 10'.  If the GM feels like doing so, this 
damage bonus could be increased to two.
  A few optional rules.
  PCs or creatures fighting Giants may have a special bonus.  If a 
giant's opponent is half the size or less, the GM may rule that 
 either:
  1)  Because the difference is size is large, that the giants 
opponent is considered a "small" target, giving the giant -10 to WS.  
This could easily be the death of a Giant, so would be a bad idea, 
but against some Daemons, could help halflings out against...say a 
Bloodthirster?
  2)  Because the reaction speeds are different, that an opponent 
half the size gets a faster reaction time against the giant.  The non 
giant then gets a +10 bonus to Initiative.  This could very well give 
the character a first strike, or a good chance to Dodge Blow.  I 
prefer this of the two.
  Optional Rule
  Here's another optional rule concerning Weapons.
  Weapons crafted for creatures over 10' tall could possible give 
bonus due to the sheer mass of the weapon.  Therefore, all giant 
sized weapons have an additional damage bonus of +1, but an 
Initiative penalty of -10.  
  Improvised Weapons are possible to for giants.   Treat them as 
Improvised, but raise the damage done by +1, and lower the Initiative 
by ten.
  I don't suggest that all these rules be used at once, or even used 
at all.  However, one or more of these rules could be applied to 
specific races.  I often find that Giants, and Ogres get hacked to 
death in no time.  I use these as extra rules to add the dimension of 
abnomal mass and strength in combat.
  Comments?
  Note, that some of the rules could be used for the Ogre PC.  I 
would suggest the +1 to damage given, the -1 to damage received, the 
the oversized weapons rule to make up for the crippling disadvantages 
the Ogres have...

  Cheers!

         Rev. Garett Lepper
         zza95ggl@sheffield.ac.uk

"Before bed, I prefer to bludgeon myself to sleep."
  -DM, Bob 3:16
