From:  Carsten Schwartz[SMTP:csn@dhi.dk]
Sent:  16. desember 1996 17:21
To:  'WFRP Archive'
Subject:  New rules for pulling uot arrows or bolts


PULLING OUT ARROWS OR BOLTS
Suggested rules for pulling out arrows or bolts by C Schwartz (1996

Ever so often it happens that unfortunate adventurers are hit by arrows 
or crossbow bolts during campaigns. In most cases the arrow gets stuck 
and has to be pulled out. Pulling out an arrow has some risk of damaging 
or disabling the victim for a period of time. If the worst happens - a 
broken arrow gets stuck in the wound, the unlucky PC has to get medical 
attention to get the arrow out. By introducing effects like these, arrows 
will be more harmful than they normally are in WFRP.

Once a PC is hit by an arrow or crossbow bolt make a test to pull the 
arrow out. The test will be based on (S*10+Dex+Cl)/3 this number reflects 
the ability to pull the arrow out of a wounded character. The PC or NPC 
pulling the arrow out must be nimble fingered, stay calm and have the 
strength needed to pull the arrow out. This score can be modified in the 
following ways:

1. +10 if the wounded character has received damage that is equal to T + 
total APs
 
2. +20 if the wounded character has received damage that is less than to 
T + total APs
 
3. +10 if the missile is a crossbow bolt since these are harder to break.

These modifiers shows how deep the arrow sits in the wound.

If the test fails the arrow or bolt breaks and the victim must have it 
removed by a physician or other special surgeon. There is also a 10% 
chance that the character pulling the arrow out has damaged the victim. 
If this test is failed the victim has to pass a Cl test or be unconscious 
for D3 hours. This is to illustrate the situation where the wounded 
character in a very unheroic manner faints from pains, when the arrow is 
yanked from his body.

Example: The Pitfighter Obert Oberfranz is hit by a goblin arrow in the 
leg during an ambush. He and his fellow PCs beats of the goblins. After 
the ambush Obert asks the Cleric of Shallaya Brunhilde Herbfinder to pull 
out the arrow. Brunhilde has a S of 3, a Dex of 34 and a Cl of  46. This 
gives her a basic test value of  36 rounding down. Since Obert received a 
damage of 5 and his T is 5 and  AP total on the leg is 1. The modifier is 
+20 which leaves Brunhilde with a test score of 56. Brunhilde rolls a 
D100 and the score is 47 - success - she pulls out the arrow.
