From: Michael Andersen <ia9501@knold.ballehs.dk>
Subject: Rules: Training in Skills

Training in Skills
By Michael Andersen and Brian Andersen

In our gaming group training of skills have always been a frustrating subject.
We all wants some realism in the rules and became quite happy when we 
discovered the rules "Practice makes perfect". But then another realism
problem showed up: When a character had trained a skill, it was like the
skill has just suddenly 'popped up'. Nothing was mentioned about the 
characters progress in the skill, and we discussed situations where a
character had a week back of his training time in a skill, but still was
as useless as ever to perform a specific task.

The following rules is a addition to the rules about gaining skills in 
Apocrypha Now, The Restless Dead, or WD 90 called Practice makes Perfect. A 
character wishing to learn a new skill must train for a number of weeks before 
he can pay the amount of EP's needed for the skill.
Unfortunately these rules doesn't state anything about the characters progress 
in the learned skill. 
If a character trying to do something which require a skill the character 
doesn't have, the character will have to test against 20% of the characteristic 
in question. 
The rule is this: The rolled number of weeks for the training time, is divided 
into 8 periods. Each passed period increases the characters chances in the 
affected characteristic.
The easiest way to calculate this is to divide the characteristic by 10. You 
now have the tenth amount, and can multiply this number.

Of course there exist some special cases. These are mentioned here:

Specialist Weapon - it is mentioned in the rulebook that a character trying to 
wield a specialist weapon he isn't skilled in, must roll under 10%. Instead 
the character should roll under 20% of his WS as the other skills.

What do you think?? Is the idea useless or?? Comments add-ons??


BTW, Does anyody have any ideas for critical tables about the folowing types of 
damage??? You would be Our hero if you could create a table or two for these
types of damage (and We're sure others would be happy too, right?!?)

Blunt Weapons critical, Claw critical, Gunpowder weapon critical, Explosives 
critical, Fire critical.
