Message inbox:18 -  Read
From:               (The WFRP mailing list) <WFRP@cool.khis.com>
Authorizing-Users: Stephen Rubin <rubin@wpi.edu>
To:                <WFRP@cool.khis.com>
Reply-To:           (The WFRP mailing list) <WFRP@cool.khis.com>
Importance:        normal
Subject:           Vortext ¦9 (finally)

RFC-822-HEADERS:
Errors-To: WFRP-owner@cool.khis.com
X-Bmwmail: 4.1
X-List: The WFRP mailing list

==================

Sorry this is late, I've been really busy lately!
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
>From Vortext #9:

entered by Stephen Rubin (rubin@wpi.wpi.edu) as it appears in the
 magazine, no corrections, no comments
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

           Warhammer Plumbing

          (Fixing a Few Leaks)

            by Anthony Ragan


        For a first edition game, Games Workshop's Warhammer Fantasy
Roleplay is remarkably free of errors.  It plays cleanly and simply,
and the basic rules/concepts are clear and easy to understand.  As
with anything as complex as a role-playing game, however, there are
always dumb rules, poorly explained rules, rules that just don't work,
and even rules that don't exist, but should.  In other words, there
are leaks in the system.
        This article proposes to fix a few of those leaks, such as the
ill-designed parrying rules or the pitiful weakness of firearms.  When
needed, I suggest new rules to fill gaps in the system, such as a
method for handling multiple attacks and a way to encourage players to
take a broad range of skills.  Most of these changes represent simple
quick fixes that have been tried and tested in my home campaign.

Character Development and Skills

        The system given in the rulebook for changing careers (WFRP,
p. 92) specifies that the player spends 100 experience points (EPs)
when taking a listed career exit, 100 points when taking a basic
career in the same general class as the current career, and 200 points
for choosing a basic career in another class.  This method is simple,
but leaves several questions unanswered.
        First, the point costs themselves are not well designed.  As
written, it costs as much to take any basic career that is in one's
general career class as it does to take a listed exit.  Yet it should
be easier to take a listed exit, which can be considered a natural
relative of the current career.  Moving to a career not specified as
an exit, yet in the same general class, ought to be more difficult; we
can reflect this difficulty in a moderate increase in the EPs required
to switch.  With this in mind, I suggest the following revised point
schedule:

        Take a listed career exit               100 points

        Take a basic career not listed
        as an exit but in the same
        general class                           150 points

        Take a basic career not listed
        as an exit and not in the same
        general class                           200 points


        There is also no mention of the general character classes into
which the advanced careers fall.  When a player wishes to move from
Forger to Grave Robber, for example, is the Forger considered to be a
Rogue (because of his shady duties), or is he an Academic (because of
the rather intellectual nature of his work and the many advances
granted to intelligence)?  The following lists assign each of the
advanced careers to a general character class.  In some cases, one
career has been assigned to more than one class because of its
multifaceted nature.

        Academic:  Alchemist; Artisan; Cleric - Cults of Morr,
                   Shallya, Sigmar, and Verena; Counterfeiter; Druidic
                   Priest; Explorer; Forger; Lawyer; Merchant;
                   Navigator; Physician; Scholar; Sea Captain; Wizard

        Ranger:  Cleric - Cult of Taal/Rhya; Druidic Priest; Explorer;
                 Outlaw Chief; Scout

        Rogue:  Assassin; Charlatan; Cleric - Cult of Ranald;
                Counterfeiter; Demagogue; Fence; Forger; Highwayman;
                Spy

        Warrior:  Artillerist; Assassin; Cleric - Cults of Khaine,
                  Myrmidia, Sigmar, and Ulric; Duelist; Free Lance;
                  Giant Slayer; Gunner; Highwayman; Judicial Champion;
                  Mercenary Captain; Outlaw Chief; Racketeer; Sapper;
                  Sea Captain; Slaver; Targeteer; Templar; Torturer;
                  Witch Hunter

        Using these lists, a GM can now assess the proper number of
EPs when a player wishes to switch from an advanced career to a basic
one that is not on his exit list.  To enter an advanced career
requires that the character has the advanced career as a listed exit.
        Using the rules above, a PC wishing to move from Artillerist
to Seaman would have to spend 150 EPs, not 100, because Seaman is a
Warrior career not listed as an exit for the Artillerist.  Finally, if
a character wishes to re-enter a career previously followed, whether
it is a listed exit or not, he need merely spend 100 EPs.
        Skills are a nother problematic area for the player and the
GM.  One of WFRP's strengths is the wealth of skills available.  The
idea is to make it worthwhile for players to acquire a broad range of
skills so that they have the tools necessary to deal handily with any
situation.  The rulebook, though, gives few guidelines for handling
characters who attempt tasks without having the necessary skills,
except for those who use specialist weapons while unskilled.  To
simply say that the character can't do it is too arbitrary:  If the
logic of the situation calls for the player to attempt the task, he
should be allowed to try.  He shouldn't have a good chance of success,
though, lest the value of the skills themselves be cheapened.  To make
it worthwhile to have lots of skills, and yet allow characters to
attempt whatever they think necessary, let me recommend a new rule.
        Whenever a character attempts a task for which he does not
have the relevant skill, roll a d100 against 20% of the appropriate
statistic, rounding all percentages down.  (Stats that are rated on a
1-10 scale are first multiplied by 10 to arrive at a percentile
number.)  For example, Curinir the Wood Elf Necromancer is desperately
attempting to pick a lock.  As an Elf, he has a relatively high
dexterity of 50.  Since he lacks the pick locks skill, though, he has
only a 10% chance of opening the lock.  He has a small chance of
success, but an even greater chance of failure.  If he wishes to open
locks in the future, he has a strong incentive to learn the necessary
skill.
        The only exception to this is spellcasting.  Only a character
that has been trained at some point may cast a spell.  A character
without the skill has no chance to succeed, unless he ahs a magical
item that itself casts the spell.

New Skills

        While WFRP contains a wealth of skills, there are some lacking
that one would think belong in an RPG filled with action and intrigue.
This section proposes a few needed additions.
        Lightning Draw:  The rules on "Actions" (WFRP, p. 116) allow
the GM the choice of either allowing "instant take-up", thus having
weapons or other items ready at a moment's notice, or assessing each
character a round's worth of action for drawing a weapon or getting an
item.  I prefer the latter, since it increases the tension in
dangerous situations and forces the adventurers to think about their
preparations.
        Still, routinely charging an action for drawing a weapon makes
combat too mechanical.  A bit of the excitement is taken away from the
start of the combat.  To allow for some variety at the start of a
combat and to let the hero stand out more from the rabble, I suggest a
compromise between the instant take-up and the charged-action-for-all
options:  the Lightning Draw skill.
        Upon learning this skill, the character may attempt to draw
his weapon and strike in one fell swoop, while others must suffer
through a take-up action.  The test is made against the character's
Initiative score.  If the character is successful, he may draw and
strike without being assessed a take-up.  This attack (or the first
attack, if the character has an A score greater than one) occurs
before any other attacks, outside of initiative order.  If the
character has been surprised, he may attempt a lightning draw to draw
his weapon and parry, but not to attack.
        Failing his Initiative roll means that the character has drawn
his weapon, but strikes in normal Initiative order, and he is assessed
a take-up.  Should the character roll a fumble, or if he fails by 30
points or more, then he has completely botched it and tossed his
weapon d4 yards away in a direction determined by rolling a d12.  GMs
should bear in mind that a character making a lightning draw may well
catch his opponent by surprise, particularly if the opponent thinks he
has the character at a disadvantage.
        Shield-bashing:  This is a new specialist weapon skill,
designed to allow the character to tuse his shield offensively,
usually to plow his way past the opposition.  To be effective, the
attacking character must run at least his M score in yards.  The
attacker then tests against his Weapon Skill.  If he fails, he is face
to face with his opponent and is locked in melee.
        If he succeeds, however, a test is then made of the attacker's
Strength against the defender's Toughness (convert both stats to
percentages, as above).  If both succeed, the winner is he who
succeeded by the greater percentage.  Should the attacker win he has
knocked his opponent aside and may continue his movement.  Lastly, if
the defender failed his Toughness test by 30 or more, he has been
knocked flat on his back and is stunned and prone for the next round.
If the defender wins, he has withstood the charge and the two are
locked in melee.  If the attacker fails his Strength roll by 30 or
more, then he has himself been knocked to the ground and is stunned
and prone for the next round.
        Only one shield bash is allowed each round; a character may
not knock one opponent aside and immediately bash the next one in his
path.  Finally, shield-bashing uses up all the character's attacks for
that round.  He may not bash on opponent and then attack another.
        Character Judge:  A character with this skill is able to
accurately gauge nother's mood as fearful, trusting, deceitful, hidden
anger, etc.  The GM makes a secret check against the Fellowship of the
character using the skill.  Success means that the character has read
the subject's mood.  The degree of success indicates the amount of
information gleaned.  (This is not telepathy, however!)  Barely
failing means the character gains no special insights, while failing
by 30 or more means that the testing character has gotten it all
wrong.  Magic or skills that mask emotions will apply negative
modifiers to the testing character's roll.  For example, successful
use of the Acting skill by someone trying to lie convincingly will
subtract 10% from the character's Fellowship test.

Combat Quirks

        For all our love of memorable plots and vivid characters,
great stories and intense role-play, it is combat that provides that
rush of adrenaline and cathartic release that we all seek in an RPG.
WFRP combat provides that.  It is simple yet dramatic, fillled with
thrusts and parries, furious attacks and desperate defenses, gory
critical hits and the ever-present threat of sudden doom on the roll
of a natural six.
        There are still gaps to fill, however.  There is no prescribed
method for handling multiple attacks, the parrying rules are badly
written, and firearms are too weak for their low rate of fire and the
danger they pose to the user.  This section addresses these problems,
and suggests some new rules.
        Gunpowder Weapons:  These are too weak to be of real use in
the game.  A pistol or a blunderbuss takes several rounds to reload
and the user runs the risk of injuring himself on a misfire.  With a
natural strength of three, firearms are distinctly inferior to bows
and crossbows, which fire more often and pose no risk to the user.
There is no reason in the game mechanics for a player to use a firearm
or learn the "specialist weapon-firearms" skill.  This is sad, since
the crude firearms are part of the charm of the game.
        To fix this, I have increased the strength of firearms in mt
campaign to four.  The user gains the benefit of additional strength
to compensate for the lower rate of fire and the risk he faces.  I
recommend adding one to the strength of the new guns in the Warhammer
Companion also, to keep them in line with the pistol and the
blunderbuss.
        Multiple Attacks:  Multiple attacks have been a problem in
combat, as witnessed by Games Workshop's attempt to regulate them by
the "effective initiative" system in the Restless Dead.  This is a
poor solution, since it involves multiple clumsy calculations that
slow combat far too much.  Yet to use the rules as they are written
oin the book literally is unacceptable, too.  If one character with
four attacks has an Initiative just one point higher than his
opponent, then he will make all his attacks before his opponent has a
chance to retaliate.  This is potentially devastating and definitely
not satisfying to the player whose character is cut down in such a
fashion.
        There is an easier way to fix this.  All PCs and NPCs take
their first attacks in Initiative order.  Then all take their second
attacks in Intiative order.  Third attacks are dealt with in the same
fashion.  This process continues until all attacks have been made.
Spells cast in melee take effect during the first attacks, at the
point determined by the casting wizard's Initiative.  Combat can then
proceed in an orderly manner, and all participants will usually get at
least one strike.
        Parrying:  The modifiers given for parrying in the table on p.
120 contain an oddity.  The left-handed dagger, which is listed as a
parrying weapon, is actually less effective against an opponent's
attempt to parry it than a normal dagger or knife (-10% to the
opponent's chance to parry as opposed to -20% for the dagger/knife).
These should be reversed to reflect the parrying weapon's supposed
advantage.
        More importantly, the attempt in The Restless Dead supplement
to give specialist parring weapons some sort of desirable advantage by
allowing such weapons a free parry in addition to the normal attacks
is poorly designed.  To offset the fact that a sword-breaker gains a
free parry under the new rule, I resort to the ugly gimmick of ruling
that the sword-breaker's special ability won't work on the free parry.
        This ill-conceived rule should be dropped altogether.  The
equivalent of a free attack, though it may only be used to parry, is
too powerful.  Rather, simply allow the user of a specialist parrying
weapon a +10% bonus to his weapon skill test when he attempts to to
parry, assuming he has the necessary specialist weapon skill.
        Withdrawal:  Surprisingly, the melee rules do not allow a
combatant the option to withdraw without exposing his back and being
subject to a free attack (WFRP, p. 119).  It seems that this should be
possible, though.  As an addition to the combat rules, I suggest that
a combatant be allowed to withdraw from melee by backpedalling up to
his M score in yards directly backwards.  he would still face his
opponent and would not be subject to a free attack.  His opponent,
though, would have the option to follow up and continuethe fight.  The
character who follows up is assumed to be winning the fight, and thus
gains +10% to this Weapon Skill in the next round.
        Surprise:  Players have mixed feelings about surprise:  They
love to catch the bad guys unawares, but will argue incessantly that
they themselves are always prepared, ready, armed, and armored, even
when they're asleep!  Surprise grants a great, almost overwhelming,
advantage to the side that achieves it.  That side has almost complete
freedom of action, while the foe can do very little. Surprise is
sharp, sudden, and dangerous.  It is one of the most dramatic moments
in the game.
        With that in mind, it's surprising (pun intended) that WFRP
handles the subject in such a loose fashion.  Aside from some general
guidelines on pp. 116-117, the only specific reference to surprse is
found under the Hide test (p. 69), which says that a successful test
makes surprise automatic.  Here are revised guideline to cover other
situations in which surprise occurs, mention of the skills relevant in
each case, and suggested changes to surprise results to make them more
believable in context of a ten second combat round.
        Surprise can occur anytime one side, or both, does not expect
the other.  Whether rounding a corner in the Duke's dungeons or
wandering through the Forest of Shadows, when one group blithely
stumbles into the other, surprise can result.  In this case, each side
tests against Initiative.  Success indicates that the character is not
surprised.  Rolls should be made for each figure involved.  If there
are too many characters involved for this to be convenient, test
against the highest "I" in each group.  In any event, be sure to apply
the same method to each party.  The GM should bear in mind relevant
skills that will influence the die roll for each side.  These include
Luck, Acute Hearing, and the silent move skills.
        As stated in the rulebook, a successful Hide test guarantees
automatic surprise.  Remember that the various concealment and silent
move skills should be factored in.  The GM, in addition, should keep
in mind Luck for both sides, while Sixth Sense, Acute Hearing, and,
posiibly, Excellent Vision weign in the intended victim's favor.
        There is a special case of ambush in which a Hide test is not
appropriate.  When a scout tries to sneak up on an orc sentry, when an
assassin tries to close with his target, or in any such circumstance,
use Listen instead.  Failure on the part of the victim means automatic
surprise.  In this case alone the attacker has one free round and his
target is considered prone.
        The rulebook states that surprised characters may "do
absolutely nothing for one round, whilst their enemies have a 'free
round' to act in" (WFRP, p. 116).  It is unbelievable that surprised
characters would stand around for ten seconds without reacting at all.
If, in addition, the attacker has multiple attacks, the victim has
almost no chance whatsoever.
        I suggest instead that, if the victim fails the "I" test by
less than 30% or the ambusher passes his Hide test by less than 30%,
the victim be allowed to only dodge or parry.  Characters with the
Lightning Draw skill may attempt to draw a weapon to parry.  Should a
victim fail or an ambusher succeed by 30% or more the victim may still
dodge, parry. or attempt a Lightning Draw, but only at 50% of his
normal skill.  In no case may the victim attack, fire missiles, or
cast spells.
        Continuing Attacks:  Finally, there is the question of the
options available to a charcter who has multiple attacks but finishes
off his opponent early:  the Judicial Champion with four attacks who
slays the goblin with his first blow, for example.  It's frustrating
for a player to stand there and do nothing because he has eleiminated
his enemy quickly.
        As an option, allow the character with leftover attacks to
move up to his M score in yards to attack another opponent.  His
attack is then made at a -10% penalty to his Weapon Skill.  If he has
attacks remaining after slaying this new enemy, he may move up to his
M score to fight another foe, this time at a -20% penalty.  He may
move no further in this round, though, even if he has attcks remaining
after slaying thethird vivtim.  this allows a mighty warrior to chop
his way through his enemies, rather than just stand around pouting
that he has no one to fight.


        No game has ever been perfect in its first edition.  While
WFRP is no exception, it is one of the cleanest first editions to come
along in along time.  I hope that you find these suggestions useful.
